Director, Regulatory Management Division  
US Citizenship and Immigration Services  
Department of Homeland Security  
111 Massachusetts Ave. NW, 3rd floor  
Washington DC 20529.  

RE:  DHS Docket # USCIS-2006-0044 & Special Immigrant Juveniles  
Proposed rule— Adjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit 
Application and Petition Fee Schedule  

As an attorney practicing in the field of immigration law, I have significant experience 
with the immigration process.  I am very concerned by the Service's proposal to increase 
its fees.   

The proposed regulation states that it will waive fees for VAWA I-360 petitions.  While 
this is a commendable proposal, I believe the service has overlooked an even more 
vulnerable group of I-360 self-petitioners: Special Immigrant Juveniles that are applying 
under section 101(a)(27)(J) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (“INA”).   

I have represented many children in this process, and have never failed to receive a fee 
waiver from the Service.  These children are under the jurisdiction of a U.S. juvenile 
court, because their parents abused, abandoned, and/or neglected them.  They are minors 
that have no source of financial support from their birth parents, and no assets or income 
to sustain themselves. They generally live in a foster care home and receive public 
assistance to cover their most basic living expenses.  Due to their lack of financial means, 
I believe these children should also be exempt from filing fees. 

Further, the Service should make clear that any elimination of the fee waiver for 
adjustment of status applications would not apply to these Special Immigrant Juveniles.  
The current proposal would eliminate the possibility of a fee waiver for adjustment of 
status applications for these Special Immigrant Juveniles.  As these children’s sole source 
of financial support is public assistance, the juvenile courts would have to decide whether 
to pay the new $905 filing fee, or simply let the children miss out on this important 
benefit.  Since most juvenile courts are not used to paying any fees for this process, I fear 
that this proposal would place relief out of the reach of the children INA §101(a)(27)(J) 
was enacted to protect. 

It is important to note that the rational advanced for the complete elimination of fee 
waivers for adjustment of status application does not apply to Special Immigrant 
Juveniles.  The Service states that the basic premise of a fee waiver is wholly or largely 
inconsistent with status as a permanent resident, because applicants must demonstrate 
they can support themselves and will not become a public charge.  However, this 

 
 
rationale fails when applied to Special Immigrant Juveniles, because they are exempt by 
statute from the public charge ground of inadmissibility and are  not required to submit 
an affidavit of support.  See INA §245(h)(2)(A). 

I hope that this proposal will be withdrawn and reconsidered as it applies to Special 
Immigrant Juveniles.  

Sincerely,  

Johnny C. Walker  
Attorney at Law  
Schoneleber & Waltermire, P.C.  
911 22nd Street  
Sacramento, CA 95816  
(916) 441-5327  
jwalker@mwslaw.com