0410212007  MON  12:54  FAX  360  786  7873  House Democrat Ldrship 

STATE l4EL'~SENTn'l'lVti 
37th DISTRICT 
SHARON TOMIKO SANTOS 
HOUSE MAIORITV WHIP 

Statc of 
Washington 
~ o u s e  of 
Kepresexltativcs 

EDUCATION 

FINANCE 

FINANCLIV. INSTITU'nONS 
& INSURANCE 

April 2,2007 

Richard A.  Sloan 
Director, Regulatory Management Division 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Dcpartrncnt of Homeland Security 
11 1 Massachusetts Avenue, NW 3Id Floor 
Washington, DC  20529 

Dear Mr. Sloan: 

I am writing to share my concerns about the proposed citizenship fee increase published 
in DHS Docket #USCIS - 2006-0044, Proposed Rule -Adjustment  of the Immigration 
and Naturalization Bcnefit Application and Petition Fee Schedule. 

I represent the 37"  Legislativc District in Seattle, Washington.  My district is very 
diverse, with thc largcst population of refugees and immigrants in the state.  I am deeply 
conccrncd about the proposal to r i s e  naturalization fccs from $400 to $675, a steep 
increase of 69%.  I am also concerned about the additional proposals lo raise fecs on 
other immigration and naturalization petitions. 

Many of the immigrant and refugee constituents of my district are low-income and 
working class people who work hard, often at 2 or 3 jobs, to support their families.  The 
proposed fee increases will significantly impact their livelihood, especially for those who 
fled persecution in their native country and received refuge or asylum here.  For example, 
a I'amily of four who have been granted asylum will be required to pay $3,620 in 
application fees for permanent residence.  Few immigrant and refugee families will be 
able to afford an expense of this amount.  Evcn more disturbing, the proposed rulc 
eliminates fee waivers for adjustments to the immigration status ol'asylees which 
removes the discretionary authority of federal agency officials to make allowances for 
thosc applicants who are destitute. 

Many of immigrant and refugee constituents of my district are elderly or disabled, and 
they already struggle to pass the citizenship test.  These proposcd fee increases will 
present yet another obstacle to citizenship.  Most of these elders live on fixed incomcs 
and can not easily secure additional resources to pay increased fees. 

LEQISLATIVE OFFICE:  436'2. LEGISLATIVE BUILDING. M HOX W .  OWh'm. WA  olisu4usoo . 3 ~ 0 7 ~ & ~ 3 4 4 .  

PRlhTKD ON RECYCLED PAPER 

0410212007  MON  12:54  FAX  360  786  7873  House Democrat Ldrship 

In sum, the proposal to raise fees for immigration and naturalization petitions is too 
expensive and too excessive in scopc.  The proposed rule, if adopted, will interfere with 
the ability of immigrant and refugccs to enjoy family reunification, gainful employment, 
or full participation in our county's  political process.  This outcome is, I believe, 
diametrically contrary to our express hope for thesc newest Americans.  I strongly urge 
you to reconsider these proposed lee increascs. 

Thank you for your attention to my comments on behall'of thc many residents of 
Washington statc who seek to gain full citizenship in this great nation. 

Sincerely, 

Sharon Tomiko Santos 
State Representative, 37"  Legislative District 
House Majority Whip