From: Karin Wolman [mailto:karin@kwvisalaw.com]  
Sent: Wednesday, February 07, 2007 4:50 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: USCIS-2006-0044 

USCIS says it needs to raise filing fees again, this time by an average of more than 65%, 
although fees were last raised less than 2 years ago.  

In the past decade, the fees for citizenship applications have gone up fourfold, but US 
employer’s fees associated with filing a regular H-1B petition for one new foreign worker 
have gone up 25-fold.  
USCIS admits that its proposed fee increases will provide no short-term benefits, and in 
the long term, they may be able to reduce processing times by “up to” 20% some time in 
2009, if at all.  Yet right away, the cost of applying for permanent residence will more 
than double, pricing many immigrants out of the process.   

It is a national embarrassment that US immigration fees continue to escalate at such 
astonishing rates, even as quality of service, availability of telephone contact with trained 
government officers, general decision quality and accountability for agency errors have 
declined. 

Apart from the US Postal Service, USCIS may be the only federal agency that attempts to 
operate almost entirely on user fees, which must cover far more than services to the 
applicants who foot the bill.  The law should be changed – specifically, Section 286(m) 
of the Immigration & Nationality Act, which currently requires all immigration 
adjudications services to be fully funded by the Examination Fees Account. This forces 
applicants for immigration benefits, including US employers, to pay for all services to 
them, and also for agency overhead costs such as administration, staffing, training and 
overtime, for information technologies needed to overhaul the agency’s outdated systems, 
for enforcement and investigation activities, and for all services to asylum applicants and 
refugees.  

The agency should be properly funded to do its job. Funding the agency’s operations on 
the backs of immigrants, and their U.S. citizen families and employers, is an injustice our 
country can no longer afford. 

Respectfully,  

Karin Wolman 

Law Office of Karin Wolman, PLLC 
48 Wall Street, 11th Floor 
New York, NY 10005-2907 
Tel. 212.918.4940 
Fax  212.918.4942