April 2, 2007 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
United States Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Ave., NW 3rd Floor 
Washington, D.C. 20529 

RE: DHS Docket No. USCIS 2006-0044 

Dear Director of Regulatory Management: 

On behalf of the Michigan Commission on Spanish Speaking Affairs, I am writing to 
oppose the proposed increases for immigration and naturalization fees and the changes to 
the fee waiver system that were proposed by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services on February 1, 2007.  We are also opposed to the elimination of the VAWA 
(Violence Against Women Act) filing fees to the extent that the fee elimination is being 
subsidized by the proposed fee increases and more restrictive fee waiver system.   

The Commission on Spanish Speaking Affairs is created by Michigan statute, and its 
members are appointed by the Governor.  The purpose of the Commission is to develop a 
unified policy and plan of action to serve the needs of Michigan’s Hispanic people. 

Of particular concern to the Commission is the proposal to eliminate access to fee waiver 
for persons submitting certain applications.  For example, the proposal would eliminate 
access to fee waivers for persons submitting Form I-485 (application for permanent 
residence) and Form I-765 (application for employment authorization).  The stated 
justification for this restriction is that, in certain situations, a fee waiver “contradicts the 
basic benefit or service being requested” and that a fee waiver would be “wholly or 
largely inconsistent with the status held or benefit or service sought.”  In its proposal, 
USCIS concludes that a fee waiver for a family-based I-485 application, for example, 
implies that the applicant would be subject to being considered a public charge, a 
potential ground of inadmissibility. 

USCIS’ conclusion ignores the reality of many applicants’ situations and attempts to 
impose a rigid “one size fits all” analysis to an issue that requires a case-by-case 
analysis.  Currently, an applicant could conceivably receive a fee waiver for a family-
based adjustment case and then obtain employment authorization, which would improve 
her and her family’s financial situation to the extent that a public charge concern could be 
allayed.   

In addition, for a VAWA-based adjustment of status application, the victim of domestic 
violence could potentially be eligible for immediate public benefits and employment 
authorization that would also improve her financial situation to the point that she would 
no longer be considered a risk for public charge.  Congress has already eased the path to 
permanent residence for VAWA beneficiaries by removing the Affidavit of Support 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
requirement.  Elimination of access to fee waivers in an across the board decision would 
frustrate the progress that has already been made for VAWA beneficiaries.   

In its discussion of fee waivers in the proposal, USCIS also mentions that when a fee is 
waived in one situation, it transfers the costs of that fee waiver to all other fee-paying 
applicants.  We understand this reasoning, and we believe that the reasoning should be 
extended to the proposal to eliminate the filing fees for VAWA applicants (Form I-360).  
The elimination of this filing fee seems to imply that all VAWA applicants lack the 
ability to pay.  This is another example of a “one size fits all” conclusion that would 
benefits from a case by case analysis.   

It is unlikely that all VAWA applicants would be unable to pay the required fees.  
Eliminating all VAWA filing fees simply transfers the costs to other applicants.  An 
across the board elimination of fees for a certain application should be rare.  A more 
appropriate solution would be to increase access to fee waivers by making the I-360 
petition eligible for fee waivers by VAWA applicants.  This should decrease, at least to a 
small extent, the large fee increases that are proposed for most applications.  Those 
applicants who can afford to pay the filing fees should pay their fair share.   

We also request that the same increased access to fee waivers be extended to applicants 
who are filing Form I-751 under the battery or extreme cruelty waiver, the U Visa when 
the application becomes available, and the I-765 by dependents of certain non-
immigrants who were recently made eligible under the Violence Against Women Act of 
2005. 

For the above reasons, we believe that USCIS should reconsider its proposals to increase 
most immigration application fees, eliminate the VAWA I-360 filing fee, and change the 
current fee waiver system.    

Thank you for your consideration. 

Sincerely, 

Benjamin D. Inquilla 
Commissioner 
Michigan Commission on Spanish Speaking Affairs