-----Original Message----- 
From: cchin@jacobspillow.org [mailto:cchin@jacobspillow.org] 
Sent: Thursday, March 01, 2007 5:24 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: DHS No. USCIS-2006-0044 

Director Regulatory Management Division U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration 
Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, 3rd Floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

Dear Director U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, 

On behalf of Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival and the interns, 
students, artists, and audiences we serve, I submit these 
comments in response to the proposed rule published in 72 Fed. 
Reg. 4888-4915 (February 1, 2007) to adjust the immigration and 
naturalization benefit application and petition fee schedule. 

Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival celebrates its 75th Anniversary 
Season in 2007. In 2003, Jacob's Pillow was declared a National 
Historic Landmark by the federal government and "an exceptional 
cultural venue that holds value for all Americans." It is the 
first and only dance entity in the U.S. to achieve this honor. 
The Pillow encompasses an acclaimed international festival (the 
longest-running dance festival in the U.S.), a professional 
school, rare and extensive archives, an intern program, and 
year-round community programs all of which are touched by the 
international dance community. The fee increase would have a 
profound affect upon our organization. 

I am opposed to the proposed increase of the filing fees for 
nonimmigrant worker petitions. The proposed increase in the Form 
I-129 and Form I-824 filing fees will be financially burdensome 
to Jacob's Pillow. Before the USCIS contemplates any price 
increase, regular processing procedures must be improved. 

USCIS should not consider a fee increase without first improving 
regular processing procedures in the following ways: 

Reduce the maximum processing period for O and P petitions to 30 
days. Receipt notices from USCIS often indicate that processing 
periods will range anywhere between 30 and 120 days. This time 
span is simply too ambiguous and lengthy to accommodate booking 
and presenting foreign guest artists for performances with a 
fixed date. To engage foreign guest artists, and more freely 
facilitate international cultural exchange through our 
highly-regarded School and Intern Programs, the nonprofit 
performing arts community must be able to rely upon a 30-day 
maximum processing period. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Improve the reliability and consistency in adjudication of O and 
P petitions. Current USCIS policies and practices result in 
inefficient processing of O and P visas - causing delay, 
expense, and unwarranted requests for further evidence. USCIS 
must implement uniform policies, procedures, and training for 
efficient processing of petitions. 

Implement uniform policies to improve the traditional expedite 
service. The USCIS has made traditional expedite processing 
available at no additional fee to petitioners who experience an 
unforeseen emergency. Since implementing the Premium Process 
Service, the USCIS has allowed nonprofit organizations to remain 
eligible for the traditional expedite. However, the standards 
for granting expedited processing requests are unclear. The 
traditional expedite is not helpful unless there are clear, 
uniform policies appropriately followed and administered by 
USCIS. 

I am grateful for the opportunity to comment on this proposed 
fee increase. We oppose the proposed fee increase and urge the 
USCIS to demonstrably improve processing of regular petitions 
before burdening petitioners with any increase in processing 
fees. 

Thank you for your consideration. 

Sincerely, 
Connie Chin 
General Manager 
Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival 
358 George Carter Rd 
Becket, MA 01223 

 cc:  
Senator Edward Kennedy 
Senator John Kerry 
Representative John Olver