-----Original Message----- 
From: Kristen Pursley [mailto:Kristen.Pursley@gw.wccusd.k12.ca.us] 
Sent: Wednesday, February 28, 2007 6:22 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: USCIS fee structure adjustment proposal 

Hello, 

I am a Citizenship teacher in Richmond, California. I have been 
teaching Citizenship for 3 years.  I also worked as a Citizenship 
counselor with a non-profit organization from 1997 to 1999.  I would 
like to offer comments on the proposed changes to the USCIS fee 
structure which come from my Citizenship students, and also add some 
comments of my own. 

Several of my Citizenship students were very concerned about how high 
the fees for filing the naturalization application will become after 
the proposed change.  Most of them have already filed their 
applications or will be able to file before the fees go up, but 
Richmond is a low income community, and they were keenly aware of the 
hardships the new fees would impose on people like them who won't be 
able to file until a later date.  The entire class of 20 people agreed 
that the fees would be too high for people who don't make much money.  
One woman commented that her husband already works very hard, and she 
was concerned that he would have to work even more to raise the extra 
money for the naturalization fees.  

One of my students who is disabled commented that the higher fee might 
be a barrier to people with disabilities, who would not be able to 
raise the extra money.   

The students also commented that no one had ever given a reason for the 
higher fees.  I know that some reasons have been given, but I think you 
should know that the explanation is not reaching the people most 
affected by this change.  They feel that it is arbitrary, or that no 
one has bothered to explain to them why it is happening. 

The most heart-rending comments came from an older Chinese couple who 
have been coming to my class for about three months.  They can't apply 
for citizenship yet because they haven't been here long enough.  They 
won't be able to apply until July, because that is when they will have 
had their Lawful Permanent Resident status for 4 years and 9 months. 
Wisely, the decided to start the Citizenship class early because they 
knew it would be a struggle for them to learn all the material.  They 
come to every class session and struggle with the English, especially 
the pronunciation, but are learning well. 

They were very distressed when they heard about the coming fee 
increase, and asked me repeatedly if there was any way they could apply 
early to get the lower rate. I had to explain that if they applied 
early their applications would be invalid; the law requires that they 
be here a certain length of time before they can apply.  They were very 
upset and disappointed to learn that, simply because of the fact that 
they happened to have arrived in the U.S. a little later than their 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
classmates, they would end up paying almost $300 more to apply for 
naturalization. 

This final comment is my own.  The reason given for the fee increases 
is that they are needed  to "enable a 20 percent reduction in average 
application processing times by the end of fiscal  year 2009".  In my 
recent experience, the processing times for the Citizenship application 
are already very satisfactory;  my students frequently receive their 
naturalization interview appointments within 2 or 3 months of the date 
they file their applications.  Back in the late 1990s, when there was 
an enormous backlog in the naturalization process and applicants were 
waiting one or even two years for their naturalization interviews, a 
rise in fees to cover the costs of streamlining the process made sense.  
Now, if the processing time was significantly shortened, applicants 
would hardly have time to study the history and government they need to 
learn to pass the interview.  There may be other areas of the country 
where the process is slower, but if a busy hub of immigration activity 
like the San Francisco Bay Area can process naturalization applications 
so efficiently with the current fees, I don't see why other areas of 
the country can't do the same. 

To sum up, a fee increase to enable a reduction in processing times for 
naturalization doesn't seem justified, given the already very 
reasonable processing times for this procedure.  Also, I think my 
students raise a very valid point about the effects of such a fee 
increase on low-income people, especially older people and people with 
disabilities.  If there must be a fee increase, it should be a much 
smaller one, and there should be a clear and easy process for obtaining 
fee reductions or fee waivers for low income, disabled and elderly 
applicants. 

Kristen Pursley 
West Contra Costa Adult Education 
Richmond, California