March 28, 2007 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
US Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Ave. NW, 3rd floor 
Washington DC 20529 

RE: DHS Docket # USCIS-2006-0044 
Proposed  rule—Adjustment  of  the  Immigration  and  Naturalization  Benefit 
Application and Petition Fee Schedule 

The Fair Immigration Reform Movement (FIRM), a project of the Center for Community 
Change (CCC), is led by low-income immigrant and non-immigrant grassroots 
community organizations working for immigration reform and immigrant rights. The 
coalition consists of organizing networks, statewide immigrant rights coalitions, and 
faith-based and low-income groups, and works in partnership with national organizations. 

Firm  strongly  opposes  the  increase  to  immigration  and  naturalization  fees  that  USCIS 
proposed on February 1, 2007. 

A large proportion of the immigrants and refugees with whom we work on a daily basis 
already  struggles  to  pay  immigration  fees.    A  very  significant  increase  in  these  fees  by 
USCIS  would  put  up  barriers  for  immigrants  seeking  to  obtain  permanent  residency 
status and become U.S. citizens.  Firm supports creating opportunities for immigrants to 
further  contribute  to  our  Nation  while  achieving  their  goals.  These  increases  are 
extremely detrimental to these objectives. 

The  fee  increase  for  naturalization  is  particularly  problematic.    The  cost  to  apply  for 
citizenship  has  risen  from  $95  to  $400  in  total  fees  at  the  present  time,  representing  a 
fourfold  increase  over  the  past  eight  years.    A  further  increase  of  70%  to  $675  would 
create enormous barriers to naturalization for immigrants, a large number of whom work 
in minimum-wage jobs. 

Particularly  alarming  is  the  proposed  increase  for  filing  for  adjustment  of  status,  which 
puts immigrants on the road to citizenship and further contribution to U.S. society.  That 
application has risen from $130 in 1998 to $325 today, in addition to $75 for biometrics.  
The  proposed  rule  would  increase  the  price  to  $905  in  addition  to  $80  for  biometrics.  
These  rule  changes  would  bring  to  nearly  $1,000  the  cost  for  an  immigrant  to  obtain  a 
green  card  and  start  the  five-year  waiting  period  for  citizenship.    For  many  minimum-

1536 U. Street, N.W. • Washington, D.C. 20007 • Ph: (877) 777-1536 • Fx: (202) 387- 4891 
www.fairimmigration.org 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
wage  immigrant  workers  and  especially  those  who  earn  too  much  to  qualify  for  a  fee 
waiver but too little to pay these fees, the increase effectively puts citizenship out of their 
reach.  Further,  the  effect  of  this  increase  on  families  with  several  children  would  be 
particularly tragic because of the combined cost for family members. 

The proposed waiver system under this new fee structure would restrict the availability of 
fee waivers to certain types of applicants, thereby terminating access to many individuals 
and families who cannot afford filing fees.  USCIS states as its rationale for this change 
the  public  charge  ground  for  inadmissibility.    However,  the  public  charge  ground  for 
inadmissibility  does  not  apply  to  individuals  filing  for  adjustment  of  status  including 
asylees,  applicants  under  section  202  NACARA,  HRIFA,  or  registry.    Nonetheless, 
USCIS  seeks  to  terminate  the  fee  waiver  system  for  these  asylees,  some  of  whom  are 
indigent  and  need  these  waivers  in  order  to  clear  immigration  hurdles  and  become 
productive members of society. 

Further, Firm observes that under this new proposed rule change, VAWA self-petitioners 
would  be  required  to  pay  the  fee  for  adjustment  of  status  while  their  self-petitions  and 
applications  for  T  visas  would  be  waived.    This  incongruence  in  the  proposed  fee 
structure is at odds with the humanitarian concerns that underlie the fee exemption for I-
360s filed under VOWA. 

FIRM agrees with USCIS that it is necessary to improve service.  The backlog of months 
and in some cases years for processing applications clearly needs to be improved.  The 
Government Accountability Office (GAO) reported that the agency lost track of 110,000 
files needed to process citizenship cases.  Therefore, FIRM congratulates USCIS efforts 
to improve its services.  Nonetheless, we believe that it is counterproductive to place the 
entire burden of paying for such improvements on the backs of immigrants struggling to 
pay agency costs. 

There are other mechanisms through which USCIS could cover its costs. No laws require 
USCIS  to  fund  its  operations  through  fees,  and  no  laws  prevent  USCIS  from  asking 
Congress for appropriations.  In the past, USCIS has sought and received Congressional 
funding.  Section  286(m)  of  the  Immigration  and  Nationality  Act  (8  USC  section 
1356(m)) states that agency fees “may be set at a level that will ensure recovery of the 
full  costs  of  providing  all  such  services.”  A  fee-funded  structure  is  by  no  means 
mandatory.  Some  opponents  of  immigration  state  that  the  costs  of  adjustment  and 
naturalization should not be placed on the backs of taxpayers. However, immigrants are 
hard working and contribute tax revenue to the United States.  Allowing them to integrate 
into U.S. society will give them an even greater connection to this country in which they 
are contributing these tax dollars. 

The benefits of legal immigration and citizenship serve our entire country.  Immigrants 
are  the  engine  of  our  economy  without  which  many  U.S.  industries  would  collapse.  

1536 U. Street, N.W. • Washington, D.C. 20007 • Ph: (877) 777-1536 • Fx: (202) 387- 4891 
www.fairimmigration.org 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Through their tax dollars and hard work, immigrants help revitalize our communities and 
keep  our  Nation’s  industries  running.    Facilitating  a  reachable  path  to  citizenship  for 
immigrants allows them to build strong ties to their new home, to learn English, to gain 
knowledge  of  American  history  and  government,  and  to  swear  allegiance  to  the  United 
States of America.  Immigration policies should encourage immigrants to reintegrate into 
our community by gaining legal status and becoming contributing citizens, not to remain 
in the shadows. 

For the aforementioned reasons, proposals to dramatically increase immigration fees are 
counterproductive  and  detrimental  to  our  Nation.    FIRM  strongly  urges  USCIS  to 
reconsider this proposal and to seek other sources of funding for its operations instead of 
placing  additional  burdens  on  the  shoulders  of  immigrants  who  are  trying  to  become 
engaged members of society. 

We  hope  that  the  Department  of  Homeland  Security  will  give  serious  consideration  to 
these concerns before implementing a fee increase. If you have any questions about these 
comments,  please  contact  me  at  (334)  202-1815,  rstolz@communitychange.org.  Thank 
you for your consideration. 

Respectfully submitted, 

Rich Stolz 
Executive Director  

1536 U. Street, N.W. • Washington, D.C. 20007 • Ph: (877) 777-1536 • Fx: (202) 387- 4891 
www.fairimmigration.org