-----Original Message----- 
From: mail.relay@mailmanager.net [mailto:mail.relay@mailmanager.net] On 
Behalf Of Evelyn Koine 
Sent: Thursday, March 01, 2007 2:44 PM 
To: USCIS Comments 
Subject: DHS Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044 - USCIS Fee Increase Comment 

Evelyn Koine 
Office of International Admission, SIUC 
Carbondale, IL 62901-4333 

March 1, 2007 

USCIS Comments 

Dear USCIS Comments: 

I am writing to you as an international educator in opposition to the 
February 1, 2007, proposed rule Adjustment of the Immigration and 
Naturalization Benefit Application and Petition Fee Schedule.  

The proposed fee increases are so exorbitant they will act as a 
disincentive for international students and scholars to study and work 
in the United States.  USCIS must reconsider the role of appropriated 
funds 

to meet the administrative needs of the agency.  I ask that fees be 
reduced to the actual cost of processing the application or petition.   

International students and scholars, and campus officials that employ  
them, file tens of thousands of petitions and applications with USCIS  
annually, including:  

The near-doubling of the I-765 fee for international students in F 
status  
to apply for work authorization for Optional Practical Training, from 
$180  
to $340. 

The increases in the fees required in connection with change of status  
from F to H-1B, including the increase from $200 to $300 (a 50 percent  
increase) in the I-539 application to change non-immigrant status, and 
the  
increase from $190 to $320 (a 68 percent increase) in the I-129 
petition 

for non-immigrant worker.  These fees are on top of the required data  
collection and fraud prevention fee, which is not part of the fee 
schedule. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Though International Student enrollment may slowly be increasing across  
the US, this undergraduate population has been in steady decline at  
Southern Illinois University Carbondale for the last five years.  The  
majority of our undergraduate are self supporting.  I am constantly  
getting  request for scholarships that we do not have available.  As 
these  
increases may only apply to currently enrolled students, they will have 
an  
impact on new students choosing The U.S instead of The U.K., Canada, or  
Australia.   

Apart from the direct impact of the excessive fees, they are contrary 
to 

clearly expressed U.S. policies.  The President, the Secretary of 
State, 

and indeed the Secretary of Homeland Security have expressed clearly 
and 

often the high value that the United States places on attracting  
international students and scholars to this country.  The United States  
reaps immeasurable benefits for our foreign policy, our students   
education and shared culture, our economy, our competitiveness, and our  
public diplomacy from attracting the best and brightest minds and the 
next  
generation of world leaders to America's educational institutions. 

While I understand that USCIS is permitted by law to recover the full 
cost  
of its services through fees, and indeed has no other option so long as  
Congress is unwilling to appropriate funds for the operation of the  
agency, I ask that the fees be reduced to the actual cost of processing  
the application or petition.  Meanwhile, I ask Congress to step up to 
its  
responsibility for fixing the untenable situation that drives these fee  
increases. 

Thank you for the opportunity to comment. 

Sincerely, 

Evelyn Koine 
618-453-2979 

This message has been verified by CapwizXC as authentic and sent by 
this 

individual.  Authentication ID: [EAO74Kk2] 

Changed message text: 61.7%