Apr  02  07  10:49p 

Noemi  Gallardo 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
United States Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
11 1 Massachusetts Ave.,  NW  3rd Floor 
Washington, D.C. 20529 

RE: DHS Docket No. USCIS 2006-0044 

Dear Director of Regulatov kIanagement: 

On behalf of kbripo~khp+edcaq!,  I write in strong opposition to the proposal 
by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) to increase the fees 
for starting the naturalization process.  Under the USCIS'  proposal, the fee for filing the 
Fonn N-400 would increase from $330 to $595, and the biometries fee would  increase 
from $70 to $80, result~ng In a total increase from $400 to $675.  The proposed 69% fee 
hike is an unfair burden for hardworking newcomers who wish to become 
U.S.  citizens and participate in everything that this nation has to offer. 

Currently, many newcomer families have limited resources, and they work tirelessly to 
save up the money required to pay the current $400 naturalization application cost. 
.4ccording  to data from the U.S. Census, about one-third (36%) of non-citizen households 
have annual incomes that are less than $25,000.  Family members often want to pursue 
U.S. citizenship by applying for naturalization at the same time.  With the increase 
proposed by the USCIS, a family of four would confront a bill amounting to $2,700.  ?In 
exorbitant price tag should not stand in the way of families seeking to realize the 
American Dream. 

I do not oppose applica~~ts paying  a fee to apply for U.S. citizenship and commend the 
USCIS for taking the steps to improve customer services and processing times.  I also 
understand that the agency believes it needs to raise fees to pay for major infrastructure 
investments and process enhancements, such as improvements in the timeIiness of 
backgound checks, modernization of its outdated business systems, facilities 
improve~nents and enhancements in its personnel training and recruitment programs. 
However, placing the full costs of these investments on the back of our nation's  legal 
permanent residents is driving fees to a level that immigrants simply cannot afford. 

Apr  02  07  10:49p 

Noemi  Gallardo 

I urge the USCIS to work with the President and Congress to obtain appropriations to 
supplement fee revenue to cover costs of major USCIS expenses such as infrastructure 
investments, process enliancements and capital improvements.  In the past, Congress has 
appropriated monies to assist the USCIS in facing challenges such as its application 
processing backlog.  The USCIS believes it needs to make sipficant investments to 
build an Immigration Service for the 21''  Century.  This is precisely the type of chilenge 
that should be met through the partnership between applicants paying a reasonable fee 
and the appropriation of Congressional funding. 

and revitalize our democracy.  Our nation has a tradition of welcoming 

Immigrants who apply for U.S. citizenship are eager to demonstrate their commitment to 
this country by becoming full participants in our nation's  civic life.  If tiley cannot 
become U.S. citizens because of an unfair fee hike, we will all lose an opportunity to 
stren,&en 
newcomers because of their contributions to our economic and social progress. The 
USCIS'  proposed fee illcrease is contrary to the spirit of this tradition and sends 
newcomers the wrong message at a time when they are seeking to  embrace 
U.S. citizenship.  I urge you to halt the proposed naturalization fee increase, and seek 
appropriated fundin2 to help cover the investments the USCIS needs to make to provide 
quality services at an affordable price. 

Thank you for your consideration of my views 

Sincerely, &/H 

h 3 0 ~ L  GALA&