Director Regulatory Management Division U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, 3rd Floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

Dear Director U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, 

On behalf of Florida's performing arts organizations and the 
audiences they serve, I submit these comments in response to the 
proposed rule published in 72 Fed. Reg. 4888-4915 (February 1, 
2007) to adjust the immigration and naturalization benefit 
application and petition fee schedule. 

I am opposed to the proposed increase of the filing fees for 
nonimmigrant worker petitions. The proposed increase in the Form 
I-129 and Form I-824 filing fees will be financially burdensome 
to nonprofit performing arts organizations. Before the USCIS 
contemplates any price increase, regular processing procedures 
must be improved. 

USCIS should not consider a fee increase without first improving 
regular processing procedures in the following ways: 

Reduce the maximum processing period for O and P petitions to 30 
days. To engage foreign guest artists, and more freely 
facilitate international cultural exchange, the nonprofit 
performing arts community must be able to rely upon a 30-day 
maximum processing period. 

Improve the reliability and consistency in adjudication of O and 
P petitions. Current USCIS policies and practices result in 
inefficient processing of O and P visas - causing delay, 
expense, and unwarranted requests for further evidence. USCIS 
must implement uniform policies, procedures, and training for 
efficient processing of petitions. 

Implement uniform policies to improve the traditional expedite 
service. The USCIS has made traditional expedite processing 
available at no additional fee to petitioners who experience an 
unforeseen emergency. Since implementing the Premium Process 
Service, the USCIS has allowed nonprofit organizations to remain 
eligible for the traditional expedite. However, the standards 
for granting expedited processing requests are unclear. The 
traditional expedite is not helpful unless there are clear, 
uniform policies appropriately followed and administered by 
USCIS. 

Thank you for the opportunity to comment on this proposed fee 
increase. We oppose the proposed fee increase and urge the USCIS 
to demonstrably improve processing of regular petitions before 
burdening petitioners with any increase in processing fees. 

Thank you for your consideration. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sincerely, 
Sherron Long 
President 
Florida Cultural Alliance 
PO Box 2131 
West Palm Beach, FL 33402 

 cc: 
Representative Alcee Hastings 
Senator Bill Nelson 
Senator Mel Martinez