Penny Rosser 
Int'l Scholars Office, Room 4-105, 77 Massachusetts Avenue 
Cambridge, MA 02139-4307 

March 6, 2007 

USCIS Comments 

Dear USCIS Comments: 

On behalf of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the 
International Scholars Office, I am writing to comment on the proposed fee 
increases for applications and petitions filed with United States 
Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS). MIT has one of the larger 
populations of international faculty and researchers in the country, with 
approximately 1600 international scholars in any given year and in various 
immigration statuses.  USCIS forms, petitions and procedures are routinely 
used at MIT and we appreciate the opportunity to comment on related 
changes. 

We are pleased by some of the progress USCIS has made thus far and agree 
with many of the goals stated in the supplementary information to the 
rule. However, the fee increases are too high, particularly when imposed 
on an entire family. In addition, there must be more accountability and 
more direct linkage between what people pay and the service they receive. 

OFF-SET OVER-RELIANCE ON USER FEES 

We understand that USCIS is working within a mandate to charge fees that 
will recuperate the full cost of providing special benefits to each 
recipient. We firmly believe, however, that increased Congressional 
appropriations are critical.  Applicants and beneficiaries are required to 
bear substantial costs that are unrelated to the costs of processing their 
request for benefits. Increased fees are meant to recover not only the 
time and resources spent on a particular application but also "to provide 
for an adequate and sustainable level of investment in staff, 
infrastructure, and processes designed to improve the USCIS' ability to 
administer the nation's immigration laws….The proposed fee structure is 
designed to recover annual costs for facilities, information technology 
systems, business processes, and other capacities…" (p. 4893). This 
includes security and anti-fraud measures. While we agree with these 
objectives, we believe the burden of overhauling the United States 
immigration system infrastructure falls unfairly on the shoulders of 
individual applicants and their family members. The United States needs to 
be willing to invest in a secure, streamlined, welcoming system. 

DECREASE FEES FOR DERIVATIVE FAMILY MEMBERS 

A spouse and children often accompany MIT researchers and faculty members. 
Fees for a change to H-1 and H-4 status and those for adjustment to 
permanent resident status are extremely prohibitive when added together 
for each family member. (The 1-129 for an H-1B: $320; I-539: $300 per 
person; I-140 petition for permanent residence: $475; Form I-485 for 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
adjustment of status: $905 per person or $805 for applicant under age 14.) 
The Service must devise a more equitable model for derivative family 
members and we would argue that the time spent on these applications is a 
fraction of that spent on the principal's request. 

IMPLEMENT ADEQUATE PLANNING AND LEAD TIME FOR ALL PROCESSING CHANGES 

We agree with USCIS plans for technological and processing improvements 
that will yield more accurate and timely results. USCIS should make 
changes in consultation with the applicant, business, academic, and 
immigration lawyer community. The Service's ambitious plan to restructure 
its business processes to electronic processing using a system of customer 
accounts was detailed in its earlier notices in the Federal Register 
(12/29/05). MIT has written comment letters in recent years expressing 
concerns with the Service's proposals (such as poorly designed forms, 
burdensome registration procedures, etc.). The Service must fully address 
these concerns and those of others as it moves forward with this 
initiative. 

In addition, it is critical that the Service Centers are adequately 
trained and prepared for all changes. 

IMPROVE PROCESSING TIMES AND RESOLVE "STUCK" CASES 

We appreciate work the Service has done thus far to reduce processing 
backlogs and wait times. We agree that going forward, this must be 
continued and improved upon. The proposed fees for permanent residence 
applications are exorbitant. Processing time for all first preference 
petitions must be improved. Resources must be devoted to resolving 
long-pending cases, particularly those involving FBI clearances. One of 
MIT's eminent tenure-track faculty members has been waiting nearly FOUR 
YEARS for approval of his pending adjustment of status case. Approval is 
contingent on an FBI response to the background check. Our inquiries with 
USCIS, the FBI and members of Congress have not yielded any progress. 
Clearly this case and others are simply stuck in the system; no background 
check that is actively moving forward could possibly take this long to 
resolve. Resources must be devoted to finishing these cases. 

We agree with the proposal to remove interim benefits from the fee 
structure. This must be accompanied by faster adjudication times and 
elimination of repeated fingerprint and security check procedures. 
Finally, for a truly equitable and successful system, old cases must be 
handled before newly filed cases, and all USCIS timeframes for 
adjudication must indeed be met or improved upon. 

MAXIMIZE THE VALUE OF BIOMETRICS 

The biometric system needs to be updated and its benefits more fully 
realized with regard to fingerprints and photographs. For example, 
applicants for adjustment of status to permanent resident now await 
adjudication of their applications for two years or longer. They are 
fingerprinted early in the application process, yet once 15 months elapses 
they are notified that they must visit a designated center to be 
re-fingerprinted. This is an enormous waste of applicant and USCIS time 
and could be resolved by both faster adjudication times and electronic 
storage of fingerprints. We know the technology exists, as demonstrated by 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
US-VISIT. 

PROVIDE FOR ACCOUNTABILITY AND DIRECT LINKS BETWEEN EXPENDITURE AND 
OUTCOME 

We agree that time and resources must be devoted to more streamlined 
processing and decreased wait times. However, the proposed fees are 
extraordinarily high. We ask for lower fees in the short term, and 
certainly in the long-term as investments in infrastructure are complete 
and economy of time and effort are realized. Furthermore, USCIS should be 
urged to differentiate and protect its funds and to be held accountable. 
The quality of service received must match the substantial investment 
petitioners and applicants make. 

CONTINUE IN A POSITIVE DIRECTION 

We applaud numerous changes the Service has made in recent years. The web 
site provides a wealth of information and the availability of on-line 
forms and instructions is tremendously useful to the public. Premium 
processing procedures provide a "model" that should be used as an example 
for maximum use of technology, more streamlined adjudications of all 
petitions, and more effective, rapid communication with petitioners. 

The Service should be applauded for numerous processing and technological 
enhancements and, going forward, for its commitment to upgrading 
facilities, adding and training staff, automating and modernizing 
processes, and reducing processing times. 

While we understand that USCIS is permitted by law to recover the full 
cost of its services through fees, and indeed has no other option so long 
as Congress is unwilling to appropriate funds for the operation of the 
agency, we ask that the fees be reduced to the actual cost of processing 
the application or petition.  Meanwhile, we ask Congress to step up to its 
responsibility for the modernization and upgrade of USCIS infrastructure. 

Thank you for the opportunity to comment. 

Sincerely, 

Penny Rosser Director 
617-253-2851 

This message has been verified by CapwizXC as authentic and sent by this 
individual.  Authentication ID: [67crdeh7] 

Changed message text: 88.6%