March 5, 2007 

Dr. Emilio T Gonzalez 
Director, Regulatory Management Division 
United States Citizenship & Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Avenue NW, 3rd Floor 
Washington DC 20529 

RE: Proposed Fee Increase (Docket No. USCIS – 2006-0044) 

Dear Dr. Gonzalez: 

We, at Filipinos for Affirmative Action, want to register our strongest objection to your 
proposed fee increases.  Proposing this fee hike on the heels of a proposal to change the 
citizenship test, legislation to escalate border security and simultaneous ICE raids on 
different workplaces across the nation send a very negative signal to the immigrant 
community.  It appears like orchestrated and deliberate steps at creating legal, physical, 
military and sheer paper walls to the eventual integration of immigrants to the 
community. 

After paying taxes for at least five years and not get any subsidy for a needed service 
does not evidence good stewardship and fairness on the part of the government.  While  
lawmakers and their spouses get adequate social security and health care, farmers get 
subsidies, congress people get pork barrels and more money for armaments and Iraq, 
applicants for CIS services not only pay 100% of the cost but also shoulder part of the 
cost for some non-paying applicants. This is imposing on applicants to foot the bill for 
collateral damages of flawed foreign and domestic policies of the government. 

Since naturalization would redound to the common good of the nation, the government 
should allocate subsidy for this service like it is doing for other more powerful groups in 
the country. Furthermore, there could be other items in justifying the fee hike that could 
be shared with other departments of the government.  A proposed 66% on the average fee 
hike looks superfluously unjust and insensitive  against a proposed 20% service hike in 
two years. Go back to the drawing board and look for alternative funding for services that 
hard working and tax paying people need. 

Sincerely, 

Eduardo Valladares 
Newcomer Counselor