A  T  r

/isian  ijaw v>/aucus

Asian Law Caucus,  Inc.
939 Market Street,  Suite 201
San Francisco, CA 94103
Phone: (415)  896-1701, ext. 122
Fax:(415)896-1702
joren@asianlawcaucus. org

March 29, 2007

Director, Regulatory Management Division
U.S. Citizenship & Immigration  Services
Department of Homeland  Security
111 Massachusetts  Avenue NW, 3rd Floor
Washington DC 20529

RE:  Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044:  Proposed Fee Increase

Dear Director,

The Asian Law Caucus is the nation's oldest legal and civil rights organization  serving low-

income Asian Pacific American (APA) communities.  Founded in 1972, the Caucus provides  free
legal representation to hundreds of low-income clients each year in the areas of immigration and
naturalization, among others.

We are writing in response  to the unprecedented,  massive proposed fee increase for
immigration and citizenship applications.  While fees of course must be adjusted  from time to time,
the scope of this proposed increase is completely out of scale.

Moreover, the elimination of fee waivers for most applications will create undue hardship,

particularly for vulnerable applicants such as battered spouses and children,  and asylees.  While we
applaud the elimination of fees for the 1-360 (Battered Spouse Self-Petition) and the continuing
policy of not charging a fee for Form 1-589 (Asylum Application), we question the sense of
eliminating fee waivers across the board for Form 1-485.  The complete elimination of access to a
fee waiver for the 1-485 will put permanent resident status out of reach for the very people you
claim to be trying to help: survivors of domestic violence and persecution.  We urge you to continue
the current policy of allowing  fee waiver requests to be evaluated  on a case-by-case basis for most
applications.

We further urge you to reconsider the scale of the fee increase, and to consider requesting

supplemental appropriations from  Congress if you feel that operating expenses are so far above
revenue.  Fees should be increased only as a last resort once Congress has spoken on an
appropriations request.

Thank you for your consideration.

Sincerely,
A 

-Y
'JPU^/M9*4~~
//Joren Lyons

Staff Attorney for Immigrant Rights

Director, Regulatory Management Division
U.S. Citizenship  & Immigration Services
Department of Homeland Security
111 Massachusetts  Avenue NW, 3rd Floor
Washington DC 20529

RE:  Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044:  Proposed Fee Increase

Dear Director,

I am writing in response to the unprecedented massive proposed  fee increase for

immigration and citizenship applications.  While fees of course must be adjusted  from
time to time, the scope of this proposed increase is completely out of scale.

Moreover, the elimination of fee waivers for most applications will create undue

hardship, particularly for vulnerable applicants such as battered spouses and children, and
asylees.  While I applaud the elimination of fees for the 1-360 (Battered Spouse  Self-
Petition) and the continuing policy of not charging a fee for Form 1-589 (Asylum
Application), I question the sense of eliminating fee waivers across the board for Form I-
485.  The complete elimination of access to a fee waiver for the 1-485 will put permanent
resident status out of reach for the very people you claim to be trying to help: survivors of
domestic violence and persecution.  I urge you to continue the current policy of allowing
fee waiver requests to be evaluated on a case-by-case  basis for most  applications.

I further urge you to reconsider the scale of the fee increase, and to consider
requesting supplemental appropriations from  Congress if you feel that operating  expenses
are so far above revenue.

Thank you for your consideration.

Sincerely,

Date: