From: mail.relay@mailmanager.net [mailto:mail.relay@mailmanager.net] On Behalf Of Virginia 
Meyer 
Sent: Saturday, March 10, 2007 7:12 AM 
To: USCIS Comments 
Subject: DHS Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044 - USCIS Fee Increase Comment 

Virginia Meyer 
2024 Bonisle Circle 
Palm Beach Gardens, FL 33418-6503 

March 10, 2007 

USCIS Comments 

Dear USCIS Comments: 

I am writing to you as an international educator in opposition to the 
February 1, 2007, proposed rule "Adjustment of the Immigration and 
Naturalization Benefit Application and Petition Fee Schedule."  The 
proposed fee increase for the I-765 is so exorbitant it will act as a 
disincentive for international students and scholars to study and work in 
the United States!  USCIS must reconsider the role of appropriated funds 
to meet the administrative needs of the agency.  I ask please, that this 
fee especially be reduced to the actual cost of processing the application 
or petition.  

International students and scholars, and campus officials that employ 
them, file tens of thousands of petitions and applications with USCIS 
annually, including this one: 

   •The near-doubling of the I-765 fee for international students in F 
status to apply for work authorization for Optional Practical Training, 
from $180 to $340. 

This fee is contrary to clearly expressed U.S. policies.  The President, 
the Secretary of State, and indeed the Secretary of Homeland Security have 
expressed clearly and often the high value that the United States places 
on attracting international students and scholars to this country.  The 
United States reaps immeasurable benefits—for our foreign policy, our 
students' education, our economy, our competitiveness, and our public 
diplomacy—from attracting the best and brightest minds and the next 
generation of world leaders to America's educational institutions. 

 The I-765 fee for Optional Practical Training is a classic example.  It 
used to be possible for school officials designated by the INS to approve 
OPT in accordance with agency regulations.  The benefits of reinstituting 
and expanding this process speak for themselves:  no application, no 
processing, no fee, one less task to be performed by the agency, more time 
to devote to what the agency really needs to do.  There is no obvious 
public policy reason for USCIS to require agency approval for OPT today.  
With the Student and Exchange Visitor Information System (SEVIS) now fully 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in place, it would be easy to devolve this responsibility back onto the 
schools.  Yet the cost of processing this unnecessary application process 
continues to drive up the fee.  

While I understand that USCIS is permitted by law to recover the full cost 
of its services through fees, and indeed has no other option so long as 
Congress is unwilling to appropriate funds for the operation of the 
agency, I ask that this I-765 fee be reduced to the actual cost of 
processing the application or petition.  

Thank you for the opportunity to comment. 

Sincerely, 

Virginia P. Meyer 
561-712-3433 

This message has been verified by CapwizXC as authentic and sent by this 
individual.  Authentication ID: [s2016VKN] 

Changed message text: 77.9%