Dr. Emilio Gonzalez
Director,  US Citizenship and Immigration Services
20 Massachusetts  Avenue NW
Washington DC 20536

Director,  Regulatory Management Division
US Citizenship and Immigration Services
Department of Homeland Security
111 Massachusetts Ave. NW,  3rd floor
Washington DC 20529

OSComments(S>dhs.gov

Dear Dr. Gonzalez:

As a Social Worker and a Refugee / Immigrant advocate,  I am writing to oppose the proposed
increase  of the naturalization fee as well as other immigration fees (DHS Docket #  USCIS-2006-
0044) which will prevent many legal immigrants from  achieving the American Dream of U.S.
citizenship.

I understand that N400 application fee could increase in 2007 to as much as $800, double the
current total cost of $400.  Even more startling is the proposed  cost of filing for adjustment of
status (getting a green card), which for many immigrants is the first step on the road leading to
US citizenship.  The cost to apply for a green card (including fingerprinting fees) has risen  from
$130 in 1998 to $400 today.  Under the proposed rule, the price will rise to $985.  In other
words, it will cost nearly $1,000 for an immigrant to get a green card and start the countdown  to
citizenship.  A minimum-wage immigrant worker would need to save a full  month's pay to  afford
the proposed fee. These fee increases  will make citizenship unattainable for many lower-income,
less-educated  immigrants—immigrants who can currently become citizens and who make
outstanding Americans.

You have publicly stated your position that U.S. citizenship is "priceless,"  and that immigrants
would be willing to pay whatever the cost. But our experience is that many  low-income
immigrants, particularly immigrant families with multiple members who are eligible to  naturalize,
already have great  difficulty  paying for their applications, and already put off applying until they
can afford  the cost. The majority of our clients in King County are low-income and, when it
comes to naturalization, already rely on services like the fee waiver  in order to become citizens.
A further  major  increase will only further  put citizenship out of reach for thousands of
immigrants who would love to become Americans.

Our government should welcome these hardworking, patriotic immigrants who want to be part of
our nation. Democratic inclusion rather than systematic exclusion should be the touchstone of our
Democracy.  We should not be erecting new barriers to keep these would-be new Americans out
of our community, especially through unaccountable administrative action. I strongly urge you
not to raise these further  barriers, and to instead keep the door to the American Dream open to
those who want to pursue it. Thank you for your consideration.

CHIP TAJ
Naturalization  Program Coordinator  at the Asian Counseling & Referral  Service
720 -8th Avenue South, Suite 200, Seattle, WA 98104