Directo 

                 Educational Fund             facilitates full Latino participation in the American political process 

Founder Emeritus 
Hon. Edward R. Roybal (Ret.)

 † 

Board of Directors 
Hon. Rafael Anchia, Chair  
           Texas State Representative 
Mr. Peter R. Villegas, Treasurer  
        Washington Mutual 
Ms. Rita DiMartino, Secretary 
          Special Advisor, International and  
          Intergovernmental Affairs 
Hon. Andres Ayala, Jr. 
           Connecticut State Representative  
Mr. Andrew Baldonado 
        Anheuser-Busch Companies, Inc. 
Hon. John Bueno, NALEO President  
           Former President Pro-Tem, Pontiac, MI  
Ms. Ivelisse R. Estrada 
         Univision Communications Inc. 
Dr. Henry L. Fernandez 
       USA Funds 
Hon. Cynthia Matus-Morriss 
            Patagonia School District, AZ 
Hon. Peter Rivera 
            New York State Assembly 
Mr. Guillermo Rodríguez, Jr. 
Hon. Rosemary E. Rodríguez 
            Denver City Council, CO  
Hon. Lucille Roybal-Allard 
            Member of Congress, CA 
Mr. Art Ruiz 
          State Farm Insurance Company 
Hon. Mary Rose Wilcox  
           Maricopa County Board of Supervisors, AZ 

Board of Advisors 
Hon. Aníbal Acevedo Vilá 
           Governor, Commonwealth of Puerto Rico 
Hon. Carol Alvarado 
             President, Hispanic Elected Local Officials 
           National League of Cities 
Hon. Joe Baca 
            Chair, Congressional Hispanic Caucus 
Hon. Maria Calix 
     Los Angeles County School Districts Organization  
Hon. Adolfo Carrión 
           Borough President, The Bronx, NY 
Hon. Pedro Colón 
          Wisconsin State Representative 
Hon. Steve Gallardo 
            Arizona State Representative 
Hon. Pete Gallego 
             Texas State Representative  
           Chair, Mexican American Legislative Caucus 
Hon. Gerri Guzman 

City Treasurer and School Board Member 

           City of Montebello, CA 
Hon. Mary Herrera 
          Secretary of State, NM 
Hon. Ray Martinez 
           Chairman, Governor’s Minority Business Council, CO 
Hon. Felix Ortiz 
           President, National Hispanic Caucus of State Legislators 
Hon. Lilliemae Ortiz 
           Chair, National Hispanic Caucus, NSBA 
Hon. Pearl Quiñones 
           School Board Member 
           Sweetwater Unified School District, CA 
Hon. Juan Ramos 

Councilman-at-Large, Philadelphia, PA 

Hon. Eliezer Rivera 
            Commissioner  
            New Hampshire Postsecondary Education, NH  
Hon. Fernando Treviño 
            School Board Member, East Chicago, IN 
Hon. Don Francisco Trujillo II 
            Deputy Secretary of State, NM 
Hon. Juan Zapata 
            Florida State Representative 

Executive Director 
Mr. Arturo Vargas 

                                                                             † deceased 

April 2, 2007 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
United States Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Ave., NW 3rd Floor 
Washington, D.C. 20529 

RE: DHS Docket No. USCIS 2006-0044 

Dear Director of Regulatory Management: 

The National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials 
Educational Fund (NALEO) would like to take this opportunity to express our 
strong opposition to the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services’ 
(USCIS) proposal to increase several immigration and naturalization 
application fees, including the fees to initiate the naturalization process.  The 
USCIS has proposed to adjust the current Examinations Fee schedule by 
amending 8 CFR part 103, Section 103.7 (b) (1); notice of the proposal was 
published in the February 1, 2007 Federal Register, Vol. 72, No. 21, 
DHS Docket No. USCIS 2006-0044 (hereinafter referred to as the “Federal 
Register notice”). 

The NALEO Educational Fund is the leading national non-profit organization 
that facilitates Latino participation in the American political process, from 
citizenship to public service.  The NALEO Educational Fund’s constituency 
includes the more than 6,000 Latino elected and appointed officials 
nationwide.  For the last two decades, the NALEO Educational Fund has 
assisted more than 125,000 legal permanent residents take the important step 
to U.S. citizenship through community-based workshops and other services 
throughout the country.  Since 1985, the Fund has also operated a toll-free 
information and resource hotline for callers with questions about the 
naturalization process – in the last five years alone, we have assisted about 
75,000 callers through the hotline.  Since 1993, the Fund has conducted a 
comprehensive national public service media campaign to inform newcomers 
about the opportunities and requirements of U.S. citizenship.   

In addition, in 2005, as part of a “Community Empowerment” civic 
engagement program, we undertook research on the barriers to naturalization 
confronted by Latino non-citizens in Houston, Los Angeles, and New York, in 
order to determine the best possible outreach strategies to increase 
naturalization rates within these communities.  Based on the research (which 
included focus groups with both U.S. citizens and non-citizens), we learned   

WWW.NALEO.ORG 

(cid:1) 1122 W. Washington Blvd., 3rd Floor 
Los Angeles, CA 90015 
(213) 747-7606 
Fax (213) 747-7664 

(cid:1) 600 Pennsylvania Avenue, SE 
Washington, DC 20003 
(202) 546-2536 
Fax (202) 546-4121 

(cid:1) 1314 Texas Ave., Suite 1630 
Houston, TX 77002 
(713) 228-6400 
Fax (713) 228-0606 

(cid:1) 110 Wall Street, 16th Floor 
New York, NY 10005 
(212) 480-1918 
 Fax (212) 480-1697  

12/06 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Director of Regulatory Management, USCIS 
April 2, 2007 
Page 2 

that the current cost of initiating the naturalization process ($400) was one of the major obstacles 
cited, together with the lack of access to reliable information about the naturalization process, 
and concerns about the level of English proficiency needed to pass the naturalization 
examination.   

Most recently, in February 2007, we launched our ya es hora ¡Ciudadanía!  
(It’s time for citizenship!) campaign, which has brought together alliances of community and 
faith based organizations, unions, public and private agencies, law offices and attorneys, elected 
and appointed officials, and private businesses in Southern California, Houston, New York and 
Miami.  The purpose of this year-long campaign is to educate eligible legal permanent residents 
about U.S. citizenship and assist them with the naturalization process.  We are conducting this 
campaign together with Univision, the nation’s largest Spanish-language television network, and 
La Opinión, the largest Spanish language newspaper. 

These comments are submitted in response to the USCIS Proposed Rule regarding "Adjustment 
of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit Application and Petition Fee Schedule.”    

I.  

Introduction 

The NALEO Educational Fund’s unparalleled experience in U.S. citizenship promotion, 
assistance and research compels us to oppose and raise serious questions about the  
USCIS’ fee proposal.  We are particularly concerned about the increase in the fee for filing the 
Form N-400 Application for Naturalization, which would raise the fee from $330 to $575.  
Together with the proposed increase in the biometrics fee (from $70 to $80), the USCIS’ fee 
hikes would raise the cost of initiating the naturalization process from $400 to $675, a  
69% increase.  We are deeply concerned that the USCIS has relied on questionable calculations 
to justify its immigration and naturalization fee hikes.  We also believe that the proposed 
increases do not accurately reflect the cost of services being provided to applicants, and that the 
USCIS has taken into account costs that should not be charged to applicants.  We also do not 
believe that the proposed increases are justified in light of the current quality of service provided 
by the agency or its proposed service enhancements.  We urge the USCIS to pursue legislative 
changes and alternative sources of funding which will enable it to cover portions of the costs of 
its services before raising application fees.  Finally, we believe the proposed increase in the fees 
for naturalization will place a significant burden on legal permanent residents pursuing  
U.S. citizenship, and is contrary to our national interest in promoting the integration of 
newcomers.  

II. 

The USCIS Has Relied on Questionable Calculations to Justify the Proposed Fee 
Increases, and the Increases Do Not Accurately Reflect the Cost of Services Being 
Provided to Applicants 

The USCIS is authorized to charge fees for immigration and naturalization applications under the 
Section 286(m) of the Immigration and Nationality Act; in describing the legal authority to set 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Director of Regulatory Management, USCIS 
April 2, 2007 
Page 3 

the level of these fees, the USCIS also refers to Office of Management and Budget (OMB) 
Circular No. A-25, which directs federal agencies to charge the "full cost" of providing services 
when those services are provided to specific recipients.  We are concerned that the USCIS has 
relied on questionable estimates and calculations in determining the level of its fee increases.  
We also believe that the increases proposed by the USCIS do not accurately reflect the cost of 
providing services to immigration and naturalization applicants, and imposes “surcharges” upon 
those applicants for services unrelated to the adjudication of their applications.  

“Completion Rates” May Measure Current Agency Inefficiencies:  In determining the full cost of 
providing services, the USCIS convened its Workload and Fee Projection Group, which 
conducted a review of the activities of costs of adjudication services funded through the 
Examinations Fee account.  In assessing the cost of “Make Determination” on applications, 
which the USCIS characterizes as the largest processing activity cost, it appears that the 
Workload and Fee Projection Group used a modeling convention that essentially took a 
“snapshot” of the USCIS’ practices during September 2005-August 2006.  This snapshot 
included “completion rates” which measure the average adjudicative time needed to perform a 
particular activity.  Thus, in determining the cost of making determinations on applications, the 
USCIS used the actual time it took the USCIS to perform the various immigration adjudication 
and naturalization activities, with no analysis of whether the agency could operate its program 
more efficiently and for a reduced cost to the applicant paying a fee.   

The impact of this methodology is of particular concern for applications where significant fee 
increases are being justified as a result of a “threefold increase in completion rates,” as is the 
case with the Form N-400 (discussed in Section X of the Federal Register notice).  The USCIS 
attributes most of the increases in completion rates to the additional time devoted to the 
expansion of background checks instituted in July 2002.  However, we understand that many of 
these checks are background checks conducted through the Interagency Border Inspection 
System (IBIS).  The USCIS notes that these checks were instituted nearly 5 years ago – we 
question why the agency has not found a way to improve its efficiency in making these checks in 
the past five years, so that it can reduce the adjudicative time spent on them.  

Moreover, in determining the amount of any increase, the USCIS should take into account any 
cost-savings it will realize as a result of increased productivity or efficiencies it intends to realize 
in the coming fiscal years, such as those which may result from its enhanced staffing model, 
improved staff training, and upgrades to its technology infrastructure.  In Section IV(E)(3) of the 
Federal Register notice, the USCIS describes an ambitious program of service, security and 
infrastructure enhancements for which it needs additional funds.  We hope that these 
improvements will result in better management and more efficient use of its resources.  We 
believe that the USCIS should demonstrate that is has taken into account the cost of processing 
immigration and naturalization applications under its enhanced processing systems in 
ascertaining the appropriate application fees.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Director of Regulatory Management, USCIS 
April 2, 2007 
Page 4 

Questionable Estimates of Application Volumes:  In addition, we also question the estimates of 
application volume presented in Table 7, Section V (B) of the Federal Register notice, which the 
USCIS uses to calculate application unit costs.  Generally, the USCIS projects a decrease in the 
volume of most applications; where increases are projected, the most significant are for the  
Form N-400 and the Form I-485.  

However, based on our own experience with naturalization applicants, and data from the USCIS, 
we have seen that naturalization applications increase dramatically immediately prior to the 
imposition of a fee hike, followed by a decline in applications.  USCIS data reveal that the 
number of naturalization applications filed with the agency increased from 602,972 in  
Fiscal Year 2005 to 730,642 in FY 2006, an increase of 21%.  In Los Angeles, in January and 
February 2007, we saw very significant increases in Form N-400 filings over the previous year.  
In January 2007, 18,024 From N-400s were filed, compared to 7,334 in January 2006.  In 
February 2007, 15,568 Form N-400’s were filed compared to 7,411 in February 2006.  As noted 
earlier, based on our discussions with naturalization applicants, we know that many consider the 
current $400 application cost to be a serious barrier for naturalization, and based on our past 
experiences, we believe that there will be a significant decline in applications after the increase 
takes effect.   

We understand that the USCIS believes that after the imposition of fee increases, the number of 
applications will start to increase again or level off.  However, the dollar amount of the proposed 
increase in the fees to initiate the naturalization process ($275) is the largest ever in USCIS 
history, and the $675 fee represents for many newcomer families the cost of a monthly rent or  
mortgage payment, their highest household expenditure.  According to data from the  
2000 Census, 43% of non-citizen households pay at least $700 in rent each month.  Thus, if the 
propose increase is implemented, it is very likely that many applicants will delay their 
applications or forego filing them entirely.   As is the case with any business that raises prices 
too steeply beyond what its customers can afford, the USCIS may experience a decline in fee 
revenue that will make it impossible for the agency to cover its estimated costs.    

Concerns About “Indirect Cost” Calculations:  We also question the USCIS’ calculations with 
respect to the $924 million in “indirect costs” described in Section VI of the Federal Register 
notice, which the agency defines as ‘‘the ongoing administrative expenses of a business which 
cannot be attributed to any specific business activity, but are still necessary for the business to 
function.’’  While identifying the total amount of these costs, it is unclear precisely how the 
USCIS incorporates them into its direct costs – it appears to make them a fixed percentage of the 
direct costs of each application, but the amount of this percentage or how it is incorporated 
seems vague.  We believe the USCIS should provide explicit information on the amount of this 
percentage so that the public can better understand the relationship of indirect and direct costs in 
the USCIS’ calculation of the increase. 

“Additional Resource Requirements” Include Atypical Processing Costs:  In determining the 
funding needed for the enhancements described in Section IV(E)(3), the USCIS identified  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Director of Regulatory Management, USCIS 
April 2, 2007 
Page 5 

$524.3 million in “additional resource requirements,” which involve costs above the basic 
resources the agency claims it needs to meet its mission responsibilities.  This $524.3 million 
represents one-quarter (26%) of the $1.988 billion the agency assigns to FY 2007/2008 
application processing activities.  However, a significant number of these “resource 
requirements” appear to be for expenses which are unusual and atypical of a normal processing 
year.  These expenses include the establishment of a second, full-service card production facility 
($34.3 million), and upgrades to the USCIS’ information technology environment ($124.3 million).  
These infrastructure costs essentially represent an “investment” that should not be funded by 
current immigration and naturalization applicants and must not be included in the fee calculation.  
As discussed further below, the USCIS should seek appropriated funding from Congress to pay 
for these large atypical funding needs, and should remove these costs from the calculation of the 
naturalization fee.  While the list of atypical expenses identified in this paragraph is not 
exhaustive, those expenses alone total $158.6 million.  The USCIS could subtract this amount 
from its fee calculations and pass the savings on to the customer. 

Other FY 2008/2007 Costs Which Should Not Be Covered By Applicant Fees:  In addition to its 
proposed infrastructure investments, the USCIS also includes in the FY 2007/2008 Immigration 
Examination Fee Account (IEFA) costs expenses which do not just benefit applicants, but which 
also benefit everyone in the nation.  In some cases, these are expenses for which other 
government agencies receive appropriated funds, or which are simply not the type of expenses 
which should be paid for by user fees.  These expenses include increased payments to the FBI for 
fingerprint, name, and security checks which benefit national security; and processing of 
Freedom of Information Act requests, for which every other government agency receives 
appropriated monies.  In addition, the costs for Internal Security and Investigative Operations for 
the investigation of misconduct of Federal and contract employees should not be borne by 
immigrant applicants.  As is the case with infrastructure enhancement expenses, the USCIS 
should seek appropriated funding to cover these costs. 

USCIS Should Seek Statutory Changes to Eliminate “Surcharges”:  As a result of USCIS and 
Congressional actions, the application fees paid by immigrants reflect “surcharges” for services 
unrelated to the processing of their applications.  For example, Congress requires the USCIS to 
use the IEFA to run the asylum and refugee programs; according to the Federal Register notice 
announcing the fee increases, these program costs amount to 8% of the FY 2007/2008 IEFA 
costs.  In assigning amounts to various fees to cover these costs, Table 11 in Section VIII of the 
Federal Register notice indicates that the USCIS has allocated $42 to each application for these 
programs.  The USCIS itself refers to this additional component as a "surcharge" to its 
application fees.  

An additional surcharge to the asylum/refugee costs is the surcharge for cases that qualify for 
waivers and exemptions.  The USCIS estimates that the cost associated with its 
waivers/exemptions is $150 million, or 6% of the FY 2007/2008 IEFA costs.  Table 11 indicates 
that the USCIS has allocated $30 to each application for these costs.   

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Director of Regulatory Management, USCIS 
April 2, 2007 
Page 6 

It is entirely appropriate to provide services to these categories of people at no cost to them.  
Such service is a part of our foreign policy and enables the United States to be in compliance 
with various international human rights treaties to which the United States is a signatory.  
However, it is inappropriate for immigrants who are paying for other immigration and 
naturalization processing services to pay for these unrelated services.  Congress should support 
the handling of refugee and asylee cases; therefore, we emphasize that under no circumstances 
should an application fee be charged to applicants for refugee or asylum status. 

Although the USCIS does not control Congress, it is the USCIS’ responsibility to present a 
strong case to our nation’s legislators as to why the Examinations Fee Account should only be 
used for services for which it charges fees.  The USCIS should make its case to Congress and 
allow Congress time to act upon it before implementing its proposed fee hikes.  

III.   The USCIS’ Proposed Increases Are Not Justified in Light of the Current Quality of 

Service Provided by the Agency or its Proposed Enhancements 

The fees for initiating the naturalization process have been soaring since 1991, when newcomers 
paid $90 to apply for U.S. citizenship.  While the USCIS has made improvements in the quality 
of its services, it still needs to make significant progress.  The agency has definitely reduced its 
naturalization backlogs and processing times – in the late 1990’s, applicants confronted an 
average wait of about two years, and the agency now estimates that the average processing time 
is about seven months.  However, there are still a substantial number of naturalization applicants 
who have been waiting security clearances for years, and the agency has been subject to 
litigation over some of these cases.   

Moreover, in USCIS materials describing the fee increase, one justification offered is that the 
agency will be able to reduce Form N-400 average processing times from seven to five months.  
To the extent that reduced processing time is one measure of the quality of service applicants 
receive, the USCIS is essentially proposing a 69% increase in costs to achieve a 40% increase in 
service.  We do not believe that processing time reduction justifies the enormous burden that the 
fee increase will impose on naturalization applicants.  

IV. 

The  USCIS  Should  Seek  Congressional  Appropriations  to  More  Effectively  Fund 
Immigration and Application Naturalization Activities 

For most of our country's history, the USCIS did not charge for immigration adjudication and 
naturalization services.   In 1968, the INS began charging fees for such services but the fees were 
deposited in the General Treasury Fund until 1989.  During that period, Congress appropriated 
funds to the USCIS for immigration adjudication and naturalization services.  It has only been 
for the last 18 years that the fees deposited in the Examinations Fee Account have been 
essentially the "sole source of funding" for immigration adjudication and naturalization services.    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Director of Regulatory Management, USCIS 
April 2, 2007 
Page 7 

There is no reason why Congress is prevented from appropriating funds for immigration and 
naturalization services, and there are many reasons why the USCIS should seek such funding 
from Congress.  In fact, as the USCIS itself acknowledges in Section III(C) of the Federal 
Register notice, for the past several years, Congress did appropriate monies as part of a five-year 
effort to reduce application backlogs, and the agency specifically mentions appropriations in  
FY 2006 ($115 million), and FY 2007 (about $182 million).   Yet for FY 2008, the agency is 
now asking for only $30 million in appropriated monies, and does not envision these funds as a 
significant source of revenue that will allow it to reduce application fees. 

We commend the USCIS for its efforts to articulate a comprehensive vision of the infrastructure 
and process enhancements it believes are necessary to “Build a 21st Century Immigration 
Service,” as described in the press materials disseminated by the agency.   We agree that many of 
these enhancements are long overdue, and that they will involve some fundamental changes in 
how the agency operates its business.  But we are bewildered by the agency’s reluctance to 
approach and make its case to Congress to obtain new appropriated funding for an agency 
overhaul.  Congress was willing to appropriate monies when the USCIS faced the extraordinary 
challenge of reducing application backlogs.  The USCIS now appears to face a similar challenge 
in making fundamental improvements that require a substantial investment, and it should 
demonstrate the leadership necessary to enable the agency to meet these challenges by requesting 
Congressional funding to supplement fee revenue.  Additionally, as noted above, the USCIS 
should seek legislative changes that would enable appropriations to be used to cover the cost of 
adjudicating refugee and asylee cases, as well as waiver and exemption expenses; such costs 
should not be covered by “surcharges” to naturalization applicants. 

We are particularly concerned about the USCIS’ public characterization of the statutory 
“mandate” that it claims requires it to recover the full costs of application services from fees and 
prevents it from seeking Congressional appropriations.  The USCIS refers to Section 286(m) of 
the Immigration and Nationality Act to support that claim; however, this section specifically 
states that application fees “may be set at a level that will ensure recovery of the full costs of 
providing all such services.”  This language does not require the agency to do so. 

The USCIS also makes reference to OMB Circular No. A-25, which establishes federal policies 
for user fees assessed for government services that convey “special benefits” to recipients 
beyond those accruing to the general public.  This Circular does state a general policy that that 
user charges must be sufficient to recover the full costs of the services, but in Section 6(c)(2)(b), 
it also explicitly allows agency heads to make exceptions to the general policy if any condition 
exists that the agency head believes justifies an exception.  First, insofar as this circular is an 
administrative policy memorandum, it does not have the force of law.  Moreover, as discussed in 
more detail below, we believe that the USCIS would be well-justified in making an exception to 
the Circular’s general policy in light of the significant burden that the fee increase would impose 
on legal permanent residents who are pursuing U.S. citizenship, and the positive benefits of 
increased naturalization to our nation. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Director of Regulatory Management, USCIS 
April 2, 2007 
Page 8 

V. 

The  Proposed  Increase  in  Naturalization  Fees  Will  Place  a  Significant  Burden  on 
Legal Permanent Residents Pursuing U.S. Citizenship, and is Contrary to the Public 
Interest in Newcomer Integration  

The proposed increase will impose a prohibitive financial burden on countless immigrant 
families.  According to 2000 U.S. Census data, about one out of three of our nation’s non-citizen 
households (36%) have annual incomes of less than $25,000.  According to a March 2007 report 
released by the Pew Hispanic Center, “Growing Share of Immigrants Choosing to Naturalize,” 
24% of legal permanent residents eligible to naturalize - or one out of four – have family 
incomes below the poverty line.  Mexican newcomers eligible to naturalize face even more 
significant financial challenges:  32%, or nearly one out of three, have family incomes below the 
poverty line.  Based on our work with Latino newcomers, we know that family members often 
want to pursue U.S. citizenship by applying for naturalization at the same time.  With the 
increase proposed by the USCIS, a family of four would confront a bill amounting to $2,700.   

Applicants for U.S. citizenship already incur substantial costs in completing the naturalization 
process - they must pay for such costs as application assistance, legal services, photographs, and 
English and civics educational services.  Currently, we know that many newcomers simply 
cannot afford to become U.S. citizens; the proposed fee increase will put naturalization beyond 
the reach of far more immigrants, including many of the most vulnerable members of our 
community such as the elderly and the disabled. 

The USCIS is proposing to raise the fees to initiate the U.S. citizenship process by 69% at a time 
when greater naturalization is critical to the future of our nation.  Legal permanent residents who 
embrace U.S. citizenship are motivated by a desire to demonstrate their commitment to this 
country, and when they gain the right to become full participants in the political process, our 
democracy becomes stronger and more representative.  Greater naturalization also makes a wider 
group of skilled and talented workers available in our workforce for positions that are barred to 
non-citizens.   

President George W. Bush and the USCIS recognize that the naturalization of legal permanent 
residents is in the best interests of this country.  In his State of the Union address, the President 
emphasized the value of upholding the nation’s tradition that welcomes and “assimilates” new 
arrivals.  In June 2006, by Executive Order, the President established that Task Force on New 
Americans, in order to strengthen the efforts of the Department of Homeland Security and 
federal, state, and local agencies to help “legal immigrants…fully become Americans.”   The 
Executive Order charges the Task Force with making recommendations to the President on 
actions that will enhance cooperation between federal agencies and among federal, state and 
local authorities responsible for the integration of legal permanent residents.  However, placing 
naturalization beyond the reach of many of our nation’s newcomers is completely contrary to the 
spirit of the Administration’s civic integration efforts, and will ultimately undermine them.  We 
cannot claim that we are truly committed to encouraging legal permanent residents to embrace 
American civic values when we simultaneously impose an exorbitant and unfair price tag on the 
cost of U.S. citizenship. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Director of Regulatory Management, USCIS 
April 2, 2007 
Page 9 

VI.   Conclusion 

As our nation looks to its future, the economic, social and civic contributions of immigrants will 
play a key role in our growth and prosperity.  The fees that we charge immigration and 
naturalization applicants are an important component of our overall immigration  
policies – policies which should be fair and which should further our nation’s interest in a vibrant 
and vital democracy.  However, the USCIS’ proposed fee increases are a serious obstacle to 
achieving these goals.  We believe the USCIS has relied upon flawed or questionable 
calculations in determining the amount of the increases.  The magnitude of the fee hikes do not 
appear to be justified in light of the quality of services received by applicants.  The agency has 
not pursued available alternatives to more effectively fund its activities.  The fee increases would 
impose an unfair burden on newcomer families with limited resources who would have to defer 
or even forego their dream of U.S. citizenship.  In light of the foregoing concerns, we believe 
that the USCIS cannot justify its increases in immigration and naturalization fees, and we urge 
the agency to withdraw or reconsider its proposal.  

Thank you for considering our Comments.  Please do not hesitate to contact Rosalind Gold, 
Senior Director of Policy, Research and Advocacy, Los Angeles Office, at  
213-747-7606, ext. 120 or rgold@naleo.org if you have any questions or if we can be of further 
assistance during the comment process. 

Sincerely, 

Arturo Vargas 
Executive Director 

cc:  

Latino Members of Congress 
The  Honorable  Edward  M.  Kennedy,  Chair,  Senate  Subcommittee  on  Immigration,                   
      Refugees and Border Security 
The Honorable Zoe Lofgren, Chair, House Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship,  
     Refugees, Border Security, and International Law