Juan reynoso 
3406 Maitland 
San Antonio, TX 78259-2123 

March 21, 2007 

Regulatory Management Div U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, 3rd Floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

Dear Director, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service: 

I oppose the proposed any immigration reform 

Mr. George W. Bush 
President of the United States 

Mr. President: 

I have worked all my live and never depended on any government social 
service, during all my working years I was unemployed for only one week. I 
paid more than my share in taxes and contributed to charity to help my 
fellow Americans in need and many Mexican communities across the border. I 
use to live in Del Rio, Texas and because illegal crossing the Rio Grande 
by my property and being robed in my home, I detained 6 Illegal Immigrants 
that was on my property, I called the Border Patrol and after 15 minutes 
one Border Patrol agent show up and informed that I was violating the 
rights of the illegal immigrants and that I can be arrested for that, 
after I was treat to go jail for protecting my home, I move to San 
Antonio, I was not able to sell my property because it was close to the 
river and people was concern about the illegals crossing  my property. to 
enter our country. The value of my property was 180,000.00 and I has to 
sell my property for 120,000.00, I lost $60,000.00 on the sale, I closed 
my business and move to San Antonio.  Moving to San Antonio cost me more 
than $100,000.00. Now I have a home in San Antonio, my property taxes are 
high, do to illegal immigration.  Mr. President, Why do I have to pay for 
the education and the economic welfare of illegal immigrants? It is easy 
to pass legislation that the cost will be bear by the ordinary people like 
myself , I'm retire and my reward for working hard for over forty years, 
is paying big taxes to support illegal immigrants. Most Americans as I do 
are against any Immigration reform, the will of the people is being 
ignored by you and the politicians that where elected to work for the 
economic welfare of the American people not the welfare of the Mexican 
people or the corrupt government of Mexico. 

What ever happened to "I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support 
and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, 
foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the 
same; that I take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation 
or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully discharge the 
duties of the office on which I am about to enter: So help me God."  Mr. 
President we have many politicians hypocrites, Republicans and Democrats 
do not be another Republican hypocrite. Since 2005, I have emailed, and 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
faxed the White House, on numerous occasions, without an action to stop 
this invasion of illegal immigrants, what are we waiting for? 

Juan Reynoso 
3406 Maitland 
San Antonio, Texas 78259 

Sincerely, 

Juan reynoso 
210-481-9725