From: Eric Ikeda [mailto:deikeda@sbcglobal.net]  
Sent: Tuesday, March 27, 2007 6:11 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: [Docket No: USCIS-2006-0044];[FR Doc: E7-01631];[Page 4887-4915]; Immigration: Benefit 
application fee schedule adjustment 

To Whom It May Concern: 

I am writing in response to the proposed increase of adoption –related petitions.  I am pleading with you to 
please reconsider this increase in fees.  We in the adoption community want only to provide a loving, 
nurturing family to a child who, without adoption, would grow up in an orphanage. In order to do so, we have 
all made commitments to pay approximately $20,000.00 in related fees.   Many of us, adopting from China, 
already have the additional financial hardship of the fees we must pay to update our Homestudies so that we 
may renew our fingerprints and I171-H for USCIS that have expired, or are due to expire due to the 
increased wait for referrals from China.  Currently, for my family, this will cost us approximately $1185.00 in 
paperwork fees alone.  This will not include the fees involved to get updated physicals for my family and I.  If 
you increase the fees the costs would increase to approximately $1330.00.  Although this figure alone would 
not seem significant, when added on to the required fees we have already paid, and to the fees yet to come, 
it is a financial hardship that many families wanting to adopt may not be able to afford.  I strongly feel that 
raising your fees will only deter families from beginning to pursue their dreams of providing a loving home to 
a child who is in great need of one, and in some cases even change the minds of families already in the 
process of adoption from continuing to the end.  China has already tightened their criteria for adoptive 
parents, and I think the increased fees of adoption-related petitions will further restrict families who want to 
adopt from other countries.  This would be a very sad thing for both the families who want to provide a 
secure, loving, productive life for a child, and for the children themselves who would have their lives changed 
forever with their new family. 

Thank you for your consideration in this matter. 

Sincerely, 
D. Ikeda