Donald Freeman 
Rev. Dr. 
338 N. West End Ave. 
Lancaster, PA 17603-3240 

March 25, 2007 

Regulatory Management Div U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, 3rd Floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

Dear Director, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service: 

I oppose the proposed increases in USCIS service fees.  As a person who 
has been involved in resettlement of several refugee families--from 
Southeast Asia and from the Balkan states--I am alarmed at the added 
burden these increases would wreak upon a vulnerable group of people who 
are already struggling to become established in the USA as their new 
homeland. 

I am proud to say that the families we have worked with--most of whom had 
braved land mines, rape, or other violence and and arrived here with 
almost no money or possessions--have all found employment, pay taxes, seek 
educational opportunities and contribute to our US culture and economy.  
Some are now or will soon be naturalized citizens.  Our country is richer 
for it. 

The proposed increases will be economically infeasible for immigrants with 
low incomes.  The proposed adjustment of status application fee ($1,370), 
for instance, would take an entire month's pay at minimum-wage!  If these 
increases take effect, many will not be able to afford to adjust their 
status, apply for work permits, or reunify their families, and could face 
deportation or elongated detention.  I especially oppose all fee increases 
that would jeopardize family reunification, noting particularly I-129F, 
I-130, I-600/A, and I-187. 

I urge the Congress to provide adequate funding for the important work of 
the USCIS without relying on fees levied against the people whom it 
serves.  Fee increases such as the ones proposed constitutes another 
regressive means of taxation of the people least able to foot the bill for 
public services.  What should happen instead is to scale back fees in 
proportion to the financial resources of the immigrant persons being 
served. 

Please do not institute the proposed fee increases. 

Sincerely, 

Donald Freeman 
717 299-5230 
Rev. Dr.