From: mail.relay@mailmanager.net [mailto:mail.relay@mailmanager.net] On Behalf Of 
Kathleen Hausenbauer 
Sent: Thursday, March 29, 2007 7:57 PM 
To: Emilio Gonzalez 
Subject: Please oppose USCIS fee increases and support comp immigration reform! 

Kathleen Hausenbauer 
2615 East 24th Street 
Minneapolis, MN 55406-1210 

March 29, 2007 

Emilio Gonzalez 
USCIS Director 

Dear Emilio Gonzalez: 

My name is Katie Hausenbauer, and I am a resident of the 5th Congressional 
District in Minneapolis, MN.  I am writing to ask for your support on two 
measures that are extremely important to me.  I would appreciate 1) your 
opposition to a fee increase by the USCIS for citizenship applications and 
2) your support of current efforts at passing comprehenvive immigration 
reform. 

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services plans to raise the costs of 
applying for American citizenship beyond the reach of many recent 
immigrants. 

During the past 12 years, the application costs have risen 400 percent. 
USCIS has proposed raising the cost of a green card from $325 to $905, a 
citizenship application from $330 to $595 and fingerprinting from $70 to 
$80. 

USCIS is one of the few government agencies that operates primarily on 
user fees, yet it plans to put an additional burden on people already 
working as hard as possible to become lawful U.S. citizens. Naturalization 
for a family of four would rise to $2,430. 

Congress should appropriate the funds necessary to allow thousands of 
hard-working immigrants to gain citizenship at a cost they can afford and 
USCIS should absolutely not enact these dramatic increases. I hope you 
will join in efforts to oppose this fee increase. 

Also, would ask you to support the efforts of Representatives Gutierrez 
and Obama to enact a comprehensive immigration reform plan.  This plan 
would allow the millions of hard-working undocumented immigrants currently 
living in the United States to work legally, support their families, and 
apply for U.S. citizenship. 

Hoever, one important change is needed in order to make the currently 
proposed legisation more workable.  I hope you will agree that the 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
provision that forces immigrants to return to their home country in order 
to apply for citizenship will discourage immigrants from applying for a 
program that would otherwise do a great deal to level the playing field 
between American and immigrant workers and would decrease the number of 
people working in the "underground economy." 

Thanks for your support. 

Sincerely, 

Kathleen Hausenbauer 

This message has been verified by CapwizXC as authentic and sent by this 
individual.  Authentication ID: [l8801GXX]