To Whom It May Concern: 

From: Mary Adair – China Adoption LID 08-08-06 

Date: 03-26-07 

I have just received an e-mail from my Agency (Great Wall of China) l regarding the increase in Immigration 
fees and am very disappointed with our US Government.   Adoption is expensive enough…with all the 
miscellaneous expenses along with Country fees…along with in-country fees, travel, etc. and now with the 
longer referral wait we have to re-submit our I-171 again making us already pay more money.  And now you 
want to raise it again and cause us to even pay more.  What is wrong our United States Government? Does 
the US government really care about foreign adoptions? Or is this just to get more money from everyone? Is 
this going to change illegal immigration…I DON”T THINK SO?  So why are we increasing the fees?  I don’t 
believe I’ve read a reason of why yet. 

I am a single woman 45 years old…and just last year decided that I wasn’t going to waste my life because 
the right man never came along so I decided to look into adoption.  I’ve always loved Asian children and 
decided to look in to China adoption since they allowed singles (at that time) to adopt.  My first concern was 
money from day one…I was already struggling financially and now I was going to have to come up with all 
this other money (about $20,000) by the time this is complete.   Many people just don’t have this kind of 
money lying around…so we all do what we have to to make it work…refinancing, second mortgages and 
even third mortgages.  Adoption isn’t something that everyone feels lead to…many people have commented 
how wonderful it is that I’m doing this and bringing home a child that wouldn’t have a good life otherwise. 
She won’t be the richest little girl around but will get plenty of love.  And that’s a whole lot better than what 
money can buy.   I never thought in a million years I’d be doing this at my age.  A dream come true for many 
families including myself.  

So why do you want to raise this fee? Please, please, reconsider this large increase for many people like 
myself that are just making ends meet and let it not be any harder than it is now.   

Sincerely, 

Mary Adair 
1682 Monticello Ct Unit E 
Wheaton, IL 60187 
630-510-0566 
LID 08-08-06 
www.godsgifttous.com