From: Alicia Bird [mailto:thebirds@salmoninternet.com]  
Sent: Tuesday, February 06, 2007 7:06 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: Incompetent USCIS 

To the USCIS: 

In December my family drove 5 hours on snowpacked roads to Boise, Idaho in 
order to file an I-600a for an adoption.  We gave them our homestudy and four of 
us were fingerprinted at the same time.  Because the little girl we are adopting is 
waiting with special needs for medical attention, I asked the senators office to try 
and expedite our paperwork, knowing that it is taking up to 3 months for the I-
171H to come in the mail.  It was a good thing I did, because the senators office 
was told that the USCIS hadn't processed our paperwork because they were still 
waiting for our homestudy.  I would have never been able to find out this 
information for myself because the USCIS office in Boise refuses to give out a 
phone number or an e-mail address.  (I was in there last week and practically 
begged on my hands and knees for a phone number to the office - they refused.  
I asked for an e-mail address - they said they'd get back to me.  They haven't.)  I 
had to fax a copy of the paperwork they lost to the Senator, and then he faxed it 
on to the USCIS office.  When our I-171H finally came, my name was spelled 
wrong and I had to go back - 5 hours again on snowpacked roads, to ask for an 
amendment.  At the same time my form came, I also received an I-171H for a 
woman who was trying to adopt two children from Haiti.  They had put my 
address on her form, consequently slowing down the adoption process for her.  It 
has all been very irritating, to say the least. 

From what I've heard from others who have adopted, the service hasn't improved 
one bit since the last time you increased fees.  I don't see how increasing fees is 
going to help the USCIS not lose my paperwork or lessen the waiting time.  I 
don't see how giving more money to incompetent people is going to make them 
less incompetent. 

Waiting 6 weeks to 3 months for an I-600a is so ridiculous, and so very sad for 
the children who wait, sometimes not making it to their adoption day because of 
the medical problems they have.   I would love to see the time shortened, but I 
don't see how more money is going to make people who don't care in the first 
place work any more efficiently.   I don't want to give more money to people who 
are so un-helpful and inefficient.   

Mrs. Alicia Bird 
Salmon, Idaho