Dear USCIS: 

On behalf of the Maryland Vietnamese Mutual Association, I oppose the 
proposed application fee increases because of the deeply negative 
impact it will have on our communities.  The increased fees are 
enormous averaging about 66% whereas an individual's salary increase 
is significantly less, averaging from 5-10%. 

Permanency and citizenship are essential processes to full integration 
and participation in American society. Many low-income families simply 
cannot afford such high fees and will be forced to choose between the 
immediate needs of providing for their family or paying for 
application fees to achieve their dreams of becoming permanent 
residents and citizens. Creating additional barriers of increasing 
fees will not only discourage many from applying but essentially deny 
many refugees and immigrants access to integrating and achieving the 
American Dream. This country is strengthened by the contributions of 
refugees and immigrants of all backgrounds and it is in our nation's 
best interest that we ensure that the path to citizenship is 
accessible for all eligible immigrants. 

I urge USCIS to find alternative solutions to offset of the 
administrative costs of USCIS, such as getting the U.S. Goverment to 
allocate funding for your valuable work. 

Thank you for your attention to this matter. 

Sincerely, 

-- 
Yen Le 
Executive Director 
Maryland Vietnamese Mutual Association 
8121 Georgia Ave, Suite 503 
Silver Spring, MD 20910 
Tel: 301-588-6862 
Fax: 301-576-4502 

"Life should NOT be a journey to the grave with the intention of 
arriving safely in an attractive and well preserved body, but rather 
to skid in sideways, champagne in one hand--strawberries in other-- 
body thoroughly used up, totally worn out and screaming WOO HOO--What 
a ride!" 

Cuộc đời KHÔNG NÊN là một chuyến du hành đi từ lúc sinh ra cho đến 
lúc chết một cách an tòan, với thân thể ta đến lúc ấy vẫn còn khả ái và 
nguyên vẹn, nhưng ngược lại trong cuộc đời cần phải có những lúc 
chệch ngã, trong khi ta cầm cốc rượu xâm-banh một tay, cầm một trái cây 
(thức ăn) tay kia để hưởng thụ, và sử dụng đầy đủ thân thể của ta, 
sống cho hết mình, tới độ hòan tòan mệt mỏi, để cuối cùng ta có thể 
kêu to: "A HA" -- chuyến du hành sao mà tốt đẹp thế!