March 22, 2007 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
US Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Ave. NW, 3rd Floor 
Washington, D.C. 20529 

RE: DHS Docket # USCIS-2006-0044 
Proposed Rule – Adjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit 
Application and Petition Fee Schedule 

On behalf of the National Korean American Service & Education Consortium 
(NAKASEC), I am writing to strongly oppose the increase to immigration and 
naturalization fees that US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) proposed on 
February 1, 2007. 

Founded in 1994, NAKASEC is a consortium of local community-based organizations 
in Chicago, Los Angeles, and New York.  NAKASEC’s mission is to project a national 
voice on major civil rights and immigrant rights issues and to promote the full 
participation of Korean Americans in American society. 

The Korean American community is largely immigrant; according to the 2000 Census, 
approximately 78% of Korean Americans were born outside of the US.  The Department 
of Homeland Security estimates indicate that there are over 200,000 Korean American 
legal permanent residents eligible to naturalize.  NAKASEC and its affiliates currently 
provide naturalization application assistance – including form filing and attorney review 
– to more than 650 prospective US citizens per year.  These community members have 
worked hard to establish lives for themselves in the U.S., and yet Korean Americans are 
still nearly twice as likely as non-Hispanic whites to live in poverty and Korean 
Americans’ per capita income is thousands of dollars less than the national average. The 
steep fee increases proposed by USCIS – which in some cases are double the current fee 
– would put the goals of gaining permanent resident status, reuniting with family 
members, and ultimately becoming a US citizen further out of reach.  USCIS should be 
building bridges for immigrants to move toward citizenship, not putting up walls. 

The proposed fee for naturalization is particularly jarring.  As recently as 1998, the cost 
to apply for citizenship was $95.  The current fees are typically $400, a fourfold increase 
in the past eight years.  Now USCIS is proposing a further increase of 70%, to $675.  An 
individual working at a minimum-wage job would need to work for more than three 
weeks and save all of her or his earnings in order to pay this fee. 

Even more startling is the proposed cost of filing for adjustment of status, which for 
many immigrants is the first step on the road to US citizenship.  That application has 
risen from $130 in 1998 to a total of $400 today. Under the proposed rule, the total price 
will rise to $985.  In other words, it will cost nearly $1,000 for an immigrant to apply for 
a green card and start the five-year countdown to citizenship.  A minimum-wage worker 
would need to save a full month’s pay to afford the proposed fee. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
USCIS claims that the fee increase is necessary to improve service.  We are not disputing the fact that 
USCIS service requires improvement; there exist continuing backlogs in application processing and 
months-long (even years-long) delays.  77,000 Koreans – and 1.5 million Asians – are caught in the 
family immigration backlogs, and Korean American citizens must wait at least 3.5 years for their 
children and up to 12 years for their siblings to join them in the US.  Furthermore, in October 2006 the 
Government Accountability Office reported that USCIS had lost track of 110,000 files needed to 
process citizenship cases.  However, we question whether service improvements could be better 
accomplished by improving the efficiency of the current application processing procedures rather than 
increasing the application fees.   

Moreover, we support the provision of the Citizenship Promotion Act of 2007 (H.R. 1379 and S. 795 
respectively) which calls for a moratorium on fee increases until the Department of Homeland Security 
can submit a report justifying the need for such increases.  This legislation mandates that this report be 
based upon a comprehensive review of the direct and indirect costs of immigration services and that 
these costs are to be distinct from expenditures related to national security and border enforcement. 

USCIS also argues that it has no other option than raising fees if it wants to cover its costs.  However, 
there are no laws that require USCIS to fund the entirety of its operations through application fees.  
Nothing prevents USCIS from pursuing other sources of revenue, including asking Congress for 
appropriations.  In fact, USCIS has sought and received Congressional funding several times in the past. 

Most basically, immigration and citizenship are public goods that benefit our entire country. Immigrants 
bring their talent and hard work to our economy.  They pay taxes, revitalize our communities, and 
contribute to the cultural vibrancy of our nation. In becoming US citizens, immigrants demonstrate their 
strong commitment to their new home country by learning English, gaining knowledge about American 
history and government, and swearing allegiance to the United States.  Given the net benefit that 
immigration provides to this country, USCIS must move towards encouraging immigrants to become 
part of our community by gaining legal status and becoming citizens, rather than set up barriers that 
block their path to citizenship and exclude them from becoming more active participants in US society. 

The plan to increase immigration fees is misguided.  I urge USCIS to first justify the fee increase by 
conducting a thorough assessment of its current policies and procedures – with particular regard to the 
efficiency of its application processing and background checks – and seek other sources of funding 
before proceeding with the proposed fee increase.  Thank you for your consideration. 

Sincerely, 

EunSook Lee 
Executive Director