To whom it may concern, 

In regards to the BUILDING AN IMMIGRATION SERVICE FOR THE 21ST CENTURY. 

• Improve processing times from six to four months for the I-90 (Renew / 
Replace Permanent Resident Card), I-140 (Immigration Petition for Alien 
Worker) and I-485 (Adjustment of Status to Permanent Resident) 

The stated processing time of 6 months for a I-485 are not realistic, here 
is some data for my wifes case, I-485 filed November 11, 2004 (Receipt 
Number: MSC0504916251), as of today (March 5, 2007) this case is still not 
adjudicated. 

Below is the text of a draft mandamus complaint that will be filed shortly: 

NOW come the Plaintiff, Valentina V. Rumyantseva, in the above-captioned 
matter, and hereby states as follows: 

1.      This action is brought against the Defendants to compel action on the 
clearly delayed processing of an I-485 Application filed by the Plaintiff, 
Valentina V. Rumyantseva.  The application was filed and remains within the 
jurisdiction of the Defendants, who have improperly delayed processing the 
application to Plaintiff’s detriment. 

PARTIES 

2.      Plaintiff, Valentina V. Rumyantseva, resides at 1418 Indian Autumn Trace, 
Houston, TX 77062, is the beneficiary of an I-485, Application to Register 
or Adjust Status, filed with the United States Citizenship and Immigration 
Service (USCIS) 
3.      Defendant Michael Chertoff is the Secretary of the Department of Homeland 
Security, and this action is brought against him in his official capacity. 
He is generally charged with enforcement of the Immigration and Nationality 
Act, and is further authorized to delegate such powers and authority to 
subordinate employees of the Department of Homeland Security. 8 USC 
§1103(a).  More specifically, the Secretary of the Department of Homeland 
Security is responsible for the adjudication of application for nonimmigrant 
visas filed pursuant to the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA).  The 
United States Citizenship and Immigration Services is an agency within the 
Department of Homeland Security to whom the Secretary of the Department of 
Homeland Security’s authority has in part been delegated, and is subject to 
the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security’s supervision. 
4.      Defendant Emilio Gonzalez, is the Director of the United States 
Citizenship and Immigration Service and an official generally charged with 
supervisory authority over all operations of the USCIS with certain 
exceptions not relevant here. 8 CFR §103.1 (g)(2)(ii)(B). 
5.      Defendant Sharon A. Hudson, Houston District Director, is an official of 
the United States Citizenship and Immigration Service generally charged with 
authority over operations of the USCIS within her District with certain 
specific exceptions not relevant here.  8 CFR §103.1 (g)(2)(ii)(B).  As will 
be show, Defendant Deputy Director District Director is an official with 
whom Plaintiff’s application to Register Permanent Resident or Adjust Status 
was properly filed. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
JURISDICTION 
6.      Jurisdiction in this case is proper under 28 USC §§1331 and 1361, 5 USC 
§701 et seq., and 28 USC §2201 et seq.  Relief is requested pursuant to said 
statutes. 
VENUE 
7.      Venue is proper in this court, pursuant to 28 USC §1391(e), in that this 
is an action against officers and agencies of the United States in their 
official capacities, brought in the District where a Defendant is located 
and performs their official duties. 
EXHAUSTION OF REMEDIES 
8.      The plaintiff has exhausted her administrative remedies.  The Plaintiff 
has supplied the USCIS documents that clearly establish her eligibility to 
Register Permanent Resident or Adjust Status. 
CAUSE OF ACTION 
9.      The plaintiff properly filed an application I-485, Application to 
Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status, pursuant to Section 245 of 
the Immigration and Naturalization Act. 
10.     This petition and supporting documentation, was filed via US Postal 
Service to the Houston District Office on or about November 11, 2004. 
Fingerprints were submitted to the USCIS on or about January 19, 2005.  The 
Plaintiff was interviewed at the Houston District Office on April 27, 2005 
and was informed that the USCIS had not completed her background check and 
the Vaccination Documentation Worksheet submitted was deficient.  On May 4, 
2005 a Supplemental Form to I-693 was sent by certified mail via the US 
Postal Service to satisfy the Vaccination Documentation Worksheet.  On May 
6, 2005 the USCIS received the Supplement to Form I-693. 
11.     On September 20, 2005 the Plaintiff contacted the USCIS by telephone and 
requested a case status.  The response to the request was prepared by the 
USCIS on December 2, 2005 (74 days after requested) and sent via the United 
States Postal Service.  The response erroneously stated, “Our records 
indicate that we are awaiting your response to our request for additional 
evidence on this case. Your case is currently in suspense or on hold until 
we receive your response.”  As a result of this erroneous information the 
Plaintiff scheduled an INFOPASS appointment and on December 14, 2005 the 
Plaintiff appeared before the USCIS Houston District Office in order to 
inquire information about the status of her case, and an officer told 
Plaintiff that the USCIS still had not completed her National Security Check 
and it could be weeks or months until it was complete and that the National 
Security Check was the only open item in the case. 
12.     On April 12, 2006 the Plaintiff appeared before the USCIS Houston 
District Office in order to inquire information about the status of her 
case, and an officer told Plaintiff that the USCIS still had not completed 
her National Security Check and it could be weeks or months until it was 
complete and that the National Security Check was the only open item in the 
case. 
13.     On October 31, 2006 the Plaintiff appeared before the USCIS Houston 
District Office in order to inquire information about the status of her 
case, and an officer told Plaintiff that the USCIS still had not completed 
her National Security Check and it could be weeks or months until it was 
complete and that the National Security Check was the only open item in the 
case. 
14.     On January 25, 2007 the Plaintiff appeared before the USCIS Houston 
District Office in order to inquire information about the status of her 
case, and an officer told Plaintiff that the USCIS still had not completed 
her National Security Check and it could be weeks or months until it was 
complete and that the National Security Check was the only open item in the 

case. 
15.     On February 20, 2007 the Plaintiff appeared before the USCIS Houston 
District Office in order to inquire information about the status of her 
case, and an officer told Plaintiff that the USCIS still had not completed 
her National Security Check and she should wait an additional 5 years until 
it was complete and that the National Security Check was the only open item 
in the case. 
16.     The defendants have failed to properly adjudicate this petition.  They 
have failed to adhere to their own regulations and have improperly delayed 
the processing of the Plaintiff’s I-485 Application after the Plaintiff had 
submitted properly executed application.  It has been 27 months since 
Plaintiff has filed her I-485. 
17.     Defendants have sufficient information to determine Plaintiff’s 
eligibility pursuant to applicable requirements and complete the processing 
procedure. 
18.     Defendants’ delay in this case is, as a matter of law, arbitrary and not 
in accordance with the law.  Defendants willfully, and unreasonably, have 
inappropriately refused to adjudicate the petition, thereby depriving her of 
the rights to which the Plaintiff is entitled. 
19.     The Plaintiff has been greatly damaged by the failure of Defendants to 
act in accord with their duties under the law. 
(a)     Specifically, Plaintiff Valentina V. Rumyantseva, has been unable to 
obtain legal permanent residence, travel and work without restriction and 
accrue time to be eligible for Naturalization as a citizen of the United 
States. 
20.     The Defendants, in violation of the Administrative Procedures Act, 5 USC 
§701 et seq., are unlawfully withholding action on the Plaintiff’s 
application and have failed to carry out the adjudicative functions 
delegated to them by law with regard to the Plaintiff’s case. 
21.     The Plaintiff has provided sufficient evidence of her attempt to secure 
adjudication of these applications at issue, all to no avail.  Accordingly, 
the Plaintiff has been forced to pursue the instant action through the 
Courts. 
PRAYER 
22.     WHEREFORE, in view of the arguments and authority noted herein, the 
Plaintiff respectfully prays that the Defendants be cited to appear herein 
and that, upon due consideration, the Court enter an order: 
(a)     Requiring the Defendants to properly adjudicate Plaintiff’s application 
for action on an approved petition; 
(b)     Requiring Defendants to provide the Plaintiff with a Notice of Approval; 
(c)     Awarding Plaintiff reasonable attorney’s fees pursuant to the Equal 
Access to Justice Act in the event an attorney is retained. 
(d)     Granting such other relief at law and in equity as justice may require. 

Respectfully submitted, 

Valentina V. Rumyantseva 
1418 Indian Autumn Trace 
Houston, TX 77062 
Telephone (832) 415-6413 
whartson@mindspring.com