March 24, 2007 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
U. S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
11 Massachusetts Ave., NW, 3rd Floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

Subject: DHS Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044 

Dear USCIS Regulatory Management Division, 

Church World Service, Immigration and Refugee Program (CWS/IRP) is a humanitarian, 
faith-based organization that works to welcome the stranger, relieve the weary and 
promote justice for the oppressed. This legacy is carried out through our denominations 
and our refugee resettlement affiliates. 

As an organization concerned with the well-being of refugees and immigrants, we are 
concerned about the recently proposed increases in USCIS service fees. Such increases 
will disrupt family unity, further victimize vulnerable populations, and be economically 
infeasible for low-income immigrants. While we agree that service quality should be 
improved to eliminate the backlog and remedy misplaced cases (up to 110,000 as 
estimates by the GAO), this burden should not be borne solely by immigrants who are 
already struggling to cover agency payments. 

Close to two years ago, we sponsored Moses and Rosina to come live in Columbus, IN. 
They had fled from war-torn Sudan to Egypt to save their lives. I know Rosina has talked 
of bringing some of her family members to Columbus, IN, for their safety. 

We are especially disappointed with the burden that the proposed increases would place 
on families. Families are the backbone of our society. The integrity of families should not 
be sacrificed for business convenience. We oppose all fee increases that would jeopardize 
family reunification, noting particularly I-129F, I-130, I-600A an I-187.  

Under this new fee structure, an individual earning minimum wage would have to save an 
entire month’s pay in order to file an adjustment of status application. A family living 
slightly above poverty level would have to pay almost 8 percent of their total income in 
immigration fees. Parents should not have to choose which child can apply for citizenship 
versus another. 

We commend USCIS for eliminating fees for certain interim benefits and initial 
applications for T-visas (I-914) and VAWA qualifying individuals. However these 
vulnerable populations would still suffer from the proposed changes. Victims of human 
trafficking and gender-based violence are often in desperate financial situations. Should 
these increases take effect, many could not afford to adjust their status, apply for work 
permits, or reunify their families, and could face deportation or elongated detention.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rather than enacting these fee increases, USCIS should work with Congress to create an 
alternative and permanent funding stream for immigration services. No law prohibits 
USCIS from diversifying its revenue through congressional appropriations, which has 
been accomplished in the past. Officials should also take into account various alternatives 
to detention and deportation that would prove more cost effective and less harmful to 
families and communities in the United States. 

Many of the proposed fee increases are excessive, unrealistic, and do not reflect 
immigrants’ diverse economic situations. As Congress considers comprehensive 
immigration reform, we advocate against these fee increases which would discourage 
individuals from residing legally in this country. The Justification by USCIS officials that 
this is a “business decision” does not coincide with the nature of government services, 
which lack the price-control mechanisms present in competitive markets. 

The proposed changes would increase the fee to adjust from temporary to permanent 
residency by 661 percent (from $180 to $1,370). The fee for a naturalization application, 
which has already increased by 400 percent under the Bush Administration, would 
increase again by 80 percent (from $330 to $595). Such large marginal increases are 
unprecedented, unnecessary and detrimental to the pursuit of the American dream. 
Immigrants paying these fees are law abiding individuals who pay taxes, contribute to 
their communities, speak English and know American history. We all benefit from legal 
immigration and citizenship --- economically and culturally. Immigrants should be 
encouraged, not hindered from applying for legal status. 

The United States should provide refuge and opportunity – welcome “the tired, the poor, 
the huddled masses yearning to breathe free.”  In the name of families, vulnerable 
populations and those seeking a better life, please do not enact the proposed USCIS fee 
increases. Surely the men and women of the Immigration Service and the Congress have 
the ability to design a more equitable funding for the deficits the Service faces than these 
repressive fee increases that fall on the back of persons not that different from those who 
have made this country the great country that it is.  

Thank you for listening. 

Sincerely, 

Caroline S. Cox-Smith 
5145 E. Walnut 
Indianapolis, IN 46219 
317-359-7126 

Caroline S. Cox-Smith 
cscoxsmith@earthlink.net
EarthLink Revolves Around You.