Paul Kircher 
1735 LeRoy Avenue 
Berkeley, CA 94709-1115 

April 2, 2007 

USCIS Comments 

Dear USCIS Comments: 

I am writing to you as International Student Advisor at the Jesuit School 
of Theology at Berkeley, in order to express my opposition to the February 
1, 2007, proposed rule "Adjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization 
Benefit Application and Petition Fee Schedule."  The proposed fee 
increases are so exorbitant they will act as a disincentive for 
international students and scholars to study and work in the United 
States.  USCIS must reconsider the role of appropriated funds to meet the 
administrative needs of the agency.  I ask that fees be reduced to the 
actual cost of processing the application or petition.  

International students and scholars, and campus officials that employ 
them, file tens of thousands of petitions and applications with USCIS 
annually, including: 

   •The near-doubling of the I-765 fee for international students in F 
status to apply for work authorization for Optional Practical Training, 
from $180 to $340.    Even at our small school where the international 
student enrollment is approximately 70 students, there are several every 
year who apply for this authorization.    Given that they are generally 
not working at the time of application, they must stretch their student 
budgets to pay this ree.    This nearly doubles the fee, causing hardship 
and sending the message that the United States discourages students from 
complementing study with practical training. 

   •The increases in the fees required in connection with change of status 
from F to H-1B, including the increase from $200 to $300 (a 50 percent 
increase) in the I-539 application to change nonimmigrant status for 
dependents and the increase from $190 to $320 (a 68 percent increase) in 
the I-129 petition for nonimmigrant worker.  These fees are on top of the 
required data collection and fraud prevention fee, which is not part of 
the fee schedule.    We paid for the H-1B petitions for two international 
faculty in the past year.    For a small school, these fees strain a 
budget that is limited and discourages us from drawing the international 
faculty that truly meets the needs of our students.    We strive to be an 
international center for the study of theology in service to a global 
Church, and this adds to the already formidable obstacles involved in 
hiring an international faculty that truly represents the global Church. 

   •The huge increases in the fees required to adjust status from H-1B to 
legal permanent resident (green-card status), including:  the 
near-tripling of the I-485 application fee for permanent residence, from 
$325 to $905; and the increase from $195 to $475 (143 percent) in the 
I-140 immigrant petition for alien worker.  (The proposed increase in the 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I-485 fee is partly offset by the fact that it is accompanied by the 
elimination of additional filing fees for work authorization and for 
permission to re-enter after traveling abroad.  However, the inclusion of 
those fees in the proposed new I-485 fee means that they would have to be 
paid even by those who do not expect to require the benefit.)   Again, 
this will increase the hardship for international faculty who already face 
substantial legal fees in applying for permanent residency. 

Many colleges and universities pay the USCIS fees for the green card 
process for the person being hired.  It is less common for the fees for 
the family members, such as spouse and children, to be paid for by the 
colleges or universities.  The increases in fees will have a severe impact 
on families.  

Apart from the direct impact of the excessive fees, they are contrary to 
clearly expressed U.S. policies.  The President, the Secretary of State, 
and indeed the Secretary of Homeland Security have expressed clearly and 
often the high value that the United States places on attracting 
international students and scholars to this country.  The United States 
reaps immeasurable benefits—for our foreign policy, our students' 
education, our economy, our competitiveness, and our public diplomacy—from 
attracting the best and brightest minds and the next generation of world 
leaders to America's educational institutions. 

Regrettably, the increased fees will reinforce the inefficiencies and 
dysfunctionalities USCIS inherited from INS when the Department of 
Homeland Security was created.  The solution to correcting the systemic 
problems that plague the agency is not to keep raising fees in a futile 
attempt to finance a twenty-first century agency.  Unfortunately, to meet 
its statutory requirements, USCIS is turning to its only steady source of 
funding, its filers and petitioners, to finance the required modernization 
of its systems.  While that is understandable, it is not acceptable as a 
matter of public policy, because it prices statutory benefits out of the 
reach of those who need them.  

The fact that USCIS operates on a fee-funded basis creates a built-in 
incentive to subsidize unnecessary work.  This creates an incentive to 
requiring USCIS approval for things; that way, you can charge a fee for 
processing the request, which provides necessary income to finance your 
broader operations.  The I-765 fee for Optional Practical Training is a 
classic example.  It used to be possible for school officials designated 
by the INS to approve OPT in accordance with agency regulations.  The 
benefits of reinstituting and expanding this process speak for themselves: 
 no application, no processing, no fee, one less task to be performed by 
the agency, more time to devote to what the agency really needs to do.  
There is no obvious public policy reason for USCIS to require agency 
approval for OPT today.  With the Student and Exchange Visitor Information 
System (SEVIS) now fully in place, it would be easy to devolve this 
responsibility back onto the schools.  Yet the cost of processing this 
unnecessary application process continues to drive up the fee.  

While I understand that USCIS is permitted by law to recover the full cost 
of its services through fees, and indeed has no other option so long as 
Congress is unwilling to appropriate funds for the operation of the 
agency, I ask that the fees be reduced to the actual cost of processing 
the application or petition.  Meanwhile, I ask Congress to step up to its 

 
 
 
 
 
responsibility for fixing the untenable situation that drives these fee 
increases. 

Raising fees sends precisely the wrong message to prospective 
international students and scholors, who already have the perception that 
it is difficult to obtain a student or scholar visa, and who thus opt to 
pursue study in other countries that are doing much more to attract and 
welcome international students and scholars. 

I thank you for considering the negative impact these drastic fee 
increases will have precisely at a time when it is crucial for the United 
States to repair its standing as a country that supports international 
education. 

Thank you for the opportunity to comment. 

Sincerely, 

Paul Kircher