From: Paul and Friends [mailto:paul@paulandfriends.org]  
Sent: Friday, February 02, 2007 3:37 AM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: Refugee Complaints 

Many refugees are complaining. Most want the increase of filing fee to go 
down. take action 

-- 
Paul's Defense of His Ministry 
 1By the meekness and gentleness of Christ, I appeal to you—I, Paul, who 
am "timid" when face to face with you, but "bold" when away! 2I beg you 
that when I come I may not have to be as bold as I expect to be toward 
some people who think that we live by the standards of this world. 3For 
though we live in the world, we do not wage war as the world does. 4The 
weapons we fight with are not the weapons of the world. On the contrary, 
they have divine power to demolish strongholds. 5We demolish arguments 
and every pretension that sets itself up against the knowledge of God, 
and we take captive every thought to make it obedient to Christ. 6And we 
will be ready to punish every act of disobedience, once your obedience is 
complete. 
 7You are looking only on the surface of things.[a] If anyone is confident 
that he belongs to Christ, he should consider again that we belong to 
Christ just as much as he. 8For even if I boast somewhat freely about the 
authority the Lord gave us for building you up rather than pulling you 
down, I will not be ashamed of it. 9I do not want to seem to be trying to 
frighten you with my letters. 10For some say, "His letters are weighty 
and forceful, but in person he is unimpressive and his speaking amounts 
to nothing." 11Such people should realize that what we are in our letters 
when we are absent, we will be in our actions when we are present. 

 12We do not dare to classify or compare ourselves with some who commend 
themselves. When they measure themselves by themselves and compare 
themselves with themselves, they are not wise. 13We, however, will not 
boast beyond proper limits, but will confine our boasting to the field 
God has assigned to us, a field that reaches even to you. 14We are not 
going too far in our boasting, as would be the case if we had not come to 
you, for we did get as far as you with the gospel of Christ. 15Neither do 
we go beyond our limits by boasting of work done by others.[b] Our hope 
is that, as your faith continues to grow, our area of activity among you 
will greatly expand, 16so that we can preach the gospel in the regions 
beyond you. For we do not want to boast about work already done in 
another man's territory. 17But, "Let him who boasts boast in the 
Lord."[c] 18For it is not the one who commends himself who is approved, 
but the one whom the Lord commends. 

Please pray and support Paul $ Friends Ministry 
talk to your Church so that they could be involve and in prayers Support 
of Paul & Friends Ministries and Missionary Journeys. Some Churches have 
done much in the last few years much more remain to be done. 
call 615 579 4794 for more information 
Our God is not a small God. 
“ But from everlasting to everlasting the LORD's love is with those who 

 
 
 
 
 
fear him, and his righteousness with their children's children- with those 
who keep his covenant and remember to obey his precepts. ” (Psalm 
103:17-18) 

Paul Mator Manyok 
Founder of Paul & Friends 
www.paulandfriends.org 
Email.Paul@paulandfriends.org 
Contact 615 579 4794