Annette Vitale-Salajanu 
2511 West Winnemac 2A 
Chicago, IL 60625-2630 

March 7, 2007 

USCIS Comments 

Dear USCIS Comments: 

I am writing to you as an immigration educator in opposition to the 
February 1, 2007, proposed rule "Adjustment of the Immigration and 
Naturalization Benefit Application and Petition Fee Schedule."  

I am deeply concerned because I think the proposed fee increases are so 
exorbitant they will constitute a road block both to permanent residents 
seeking to become full members of our community by de facto denying them 
access to full citizenship because of the cost of the fees, and may cause 
some individuals who would otherwise remain out of status to fail to do so 
because they cannot afford the fees to file the necessary applications and 
petitions required by law.  

I work as an Immigration Educator in at risk communities in Chicago.  For 
example, I teach a class in "American Government and How to Become a Great 
Citizen" for permanent residents at San Miguel in the Back of the Yards 
Neighborhood in Chicago who want to become naturalized citizens.  The 
average family size of people who are part of this community is 5.3 and 
the average household earns $27,000 a year.  

Yet, these are not families looking for a handout.  They work hard, are 
active in thier community, and would never consider asking for a reduction 
in fees because of their poverty.  It is not part of their culture, which 
the USCIS must take into consideration.  Instead, they would simply not 
apply for citizenship.  This in turn means that they and their family will 
feel -- and be --disenfranchised. 

I personally feel that these exorbitant fees are not unlike the poll taxes 
and other barriers to voting which civil rights leaders like Martin Luther 
King, which are cited on the Naturalization exam sought to overcome when 
struggling to get Congress to pass the Voting Rights Act in 1965.  

USCIS should and must reconsider the role of appropriated funds to meet 
the administrative needs of the agency.  I ask that fees be reduced to the 
actual cost of processing the application or petition.  Do not make these 
poor working families choose between becoming full citizens or buying food 
and school supplies for their children, because believe me, that is what 
this will come down to for families like those with whom I work. 

I am most concerned about the fee increases for the N-400 raising the 
total cost from $400 to $675 and the huge increases in the fees required 
to adjust status to legal permanent resident (green-card status), 
including:  the near-tripling of the I-485 application fee for permanent 
residence, from $325 to $905, the cost of the I-765 from $180 to $340, the 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I-130 from $180 to $355, and the I-751 to remove conditional status from 
$205 to $465.  The end increase means an increased burden on an immigrant 
who marries a US citizen will be nearly $1200 plus an additional $275 when 
they file for naturalization.  This puts a burden of $2740 on a family 
just starting out in the first years of marriage. 

I myself have been married to a naturalized US citizen for over 22 years 
and I know how difficult it was for us to pay the fees for my husbands 
immigration paperwork and naturalization all those years ago.  I have not 
forgotten the hardship it was on us all those years ago and at that time 
the fees were a fraction of what they are now.  We were using our funds at 
the time to pay for our college educations and struggling to pay rent of 
$250 a month!  (Rents here in Chicago average about $800 a month.)  My 
husband never used federal financial aid as it was contrary to his 
cultural beliefs.  Eventually I got my MPA degree and he got his Ph.D. 
from the University of Michigan --and he is working for the US Government 
providing critical research in remote sensing for the USDA Forest Service. 
 Who knows if we would have succeeded in making something of our lives if 
we had had to spend our limited resources on immigration fees.  

You just do not understand the impact that these fees on the decisions 
people are able to make for thier lives. 

Further, I also think that these fee increases send the wrong message 
generally to people from around the world who already believe the USA is 
no longer welcoming to people from abroad.  The United States has been 
losing market share in the number of international students and many 
talented immigrants are looking to immigrate to other countries rather 
than come here because of the perception that the United States no longer 
welcomes talented people from abroad. 

As someone who has been working in the immigration field for some time, 
both as a PDSO/RO at several institutions and now as an Immigration 
Educator for the University of Illinois Extension, I have seen first hand 
some of the inefficiencies and problems inherent in the management of the 
current immigration system.  I have seen countless fee increases over time 
with promises that they would yield improvements in services, but frankly, 
I have not seen significant improvements.  

The increased fees will reinforce the inefficiencies and 
dysfunctionalities USCIS inherited from INS when the Department of 
Homeland Security was created.  The solution to correcting the systemic 
problems that plague the agency is not to keep raising fees in a futile 
attempt to finance a twenty-first century agency.  Unfortunately, to meet 
its statutory requirements, USCIS is turning to its only steady source of 
funding, its filers and petitioners, to finance the required modernization 
of its systems.  While that is understandable, it is not acceptable as a 
matter of public policy, because it prices statutory benefits out of the 
reach of those who need them.  

The fact that USCIS operates on a fee-funded basis creates a built-in 
incentive to subsidize unnecessary work.  This creates an incentive to 
requiring USCIS approval for things; that way, you can charge a fee for 
processing the request, which provides necessary income to finance your 
broader operations.  The I-765 fee for Optional Practical Training is a 
classic example.  It used to be possible for school officials designated 

 
 
 
 
 
 
by the INS to approve OPT in accordance with agency regulations.  The 
benefits of reinstituting and expanding this process speak for themselves: 
 no application, no processing, no fee, one less task to be performed by 
the agency, more time to devote to what the agency really needs to do.  
There is no obvious public policy reason for USCIS to require agency 
approval for OPT today.  With the Student and Exchange Visitor Information 
System (SEVIS) now fully in place, it would be easy to devolve this 
responsibility back onto the schools.  Yet the cost of processing this 
unnecessary application process continues to drive up the fee.  

While I understand that USCIS is permitted by law to recover the full cost 
of its services through fees, and indeed has no other option so long as 
Congress is unwilling to appropriate funds for the operation of the 
agency, I ask that the fees be reduced to the actual cost of processing 
the application or petition and that the naturalization fees and those 
related to family based immigration be kept to a minimum to encourage and 
facilitate new immigrant to become full participants in their communities. 

I also ask members of Congress to step up to the obligations they have 
under the Constitution and actually establish "a uniform rule of 
Naturalization" (article 1, section 8, clause 4) which is fair, does not 
disciminate against the poor and underprivedged immigrants of this 
country, embraces diversity, and makes sense.  My students know where this 
responsibility rests:  do you? 

Thank you for the opportunity to comment. 

Sincerely, 

Annette Vitale-Salajanu 
8152604775 

This message has been verified by CapwizXC as authentic and sent by this 
individual.  Authentication ID: [QKJ89Dz7] 

Changed message text: 75.1%