From: Marya Millard [mailto:gringitarubia1@yahoo.com]  
Sent: Monday, March 05, 2007 9:04 AM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: Fee Increase 

To whom it may concern: 
I have recently learned about the proposed fee increase of many USCIS forms.  I can 
understand the need to increase fees to increase staff and productivity of the organization, 
however I think that some of the fees are a little too high.  I have multiple connections 
with immigrants in my community and some of these fees would mean they would never 
be able to adjust status, or eventually apply for citizenship.  It is sadening for me to think 
that those who come to the U.S. and are truely committed to this country will be unable 
to become U.S. citizens.  Now I understand that some ammount of fee increase is 
necessary but I would like to give some suggestions for the fee increase.  First, as I 
understand refugees are automatically granted a waiver for all but the biometric fee (I am 
not arguing with this practice, I think it is wonderful) however i would like to propose 
that asylees are also granted this same automatic waiver.  Many asylees flee their country 
of origin for the same or similar reasons as refugees.  Similarly many asylees are subject 
to the same financial woes as refugees upon arrival to the U.S. especially since they must 
apply for asylum status and therefore have probably incured great dept to a lawyer.  
Second, I suggest that fees be increased gradually (i.e. over the course of 3-5 years).  And 
finally If none of these options are possible I suggest that fee waivers be more widely 
accepted.  I know of multiple situations where someone has requested a fee waiver and it 
was denied and the then the person was unable to apply for the benefit they were seeking 
(two examples of well documented cases for the need of a fee waiver off the top of my 
head are a single mother of six children all under the age of 20 denied fee waiver for 
citizenship, and an elderly couple with a disabled son, all on SSI-each only receiving 
$495 a month- were denied the waiver as well).  Please reconsider the proposed fee 
increase and keep in mind those immigrants who work full time however only receive 
minimum wage plus have a family to support and a family who also needs certain 
benefits.  Thank you for your time. 
Sincerely, 
Marya Millard 
A concerned community member and U.S. Citizen 

Cheap Talk? Check out Yahoo! Messenger's low PC-to-Phone call rates.