-----Original Message----- 
From: jessica.stahl@wwu.edu [mailto:jessica.stahl@wwu.edu] 
Sent: Wednesday, February 28, 2007 3:46 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: DHS No. USCIS-2006-0044 

Director Regulatory Management Division U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration 
Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, 3rd Floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

Dear Director U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, 

On behalf of Western Washington University Dance Program and the 
audiences we serve, I submit these comments in response to the 
proposed rule published in 72 Fed. Reg. 4888-4915 (February 1, 
2007) to adjust the immigration and naturalization benefit 
application and petition fee schedule. 

I am opposed to the proposed increase of the filing fees for 
nonimmigrant worker petitions. The proposed increase in the Form 
I-129 and Form I-824 filing fees will be not just financially 
burdensome to the WWU Dance Program, but prohibitive, preventing 
us from bringing cultural diversity and variety to dance at 
Western. Before the USCIS contemplates any price increase, 
regular processing procedures must be improved. 

USCIS should not consider a fee increase without first improving 
regular processing procedures in the following ways: 

Reduce the maximum processing period for O and P petitions to 30 
days. Receipt notices from USCIS often indicate that processing 
periods will range anywhere between 30 and 120 days. This time 
span is simply too ambiguous and lengthy to accommodate booking 
and presenting foreign guest artists for performances with a 
fixed date. To engage foreign guest artists, and more freely 
facilitate international cultural exchange, the nonprofit 
performing arts community must be able to rely upon a 30-day 
maximum processing period. 

Artists must make a living. They cannot be kept on hold, waiting 
to find out whether our program can book them or not. We must be 
able to communicate in a timely fashion, or they will go 
elsewhere. 

Improve the reliability and consistency in adjudication of O and 
P petitions. Current USCIS policies and practices result in 
inefficient processing of O and P visas - causing delay, 
expense, and unwarranted requests for further evidence. USCIS 
must implement uniform policies, procedures, and training for 
efficient processing of petitions. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Implement uniform policies to improve the traditional expedite 
service. The USCIS has made traditional expedite processing 
available at no additional fee to petitioners who experience an 
unforeseen emergency. Since implementing the Premium Process 
Service, the USCIS has allowed nonprofit organizations to remain 
eligible for the traditional expedite. However, the standards 
for granting expedited processing requests are unclear. The 
traditional expedite is not helpful unless there are clear, 
uniform policies appropriately followed and administered by 
USCIS. 

I am grateful for the opportunity to comment on this proposed 
fee increase. The WWU Dance Program opposes the proposed fee 
increase and urges the USCIS to demonstrably improve processing 
of regular petitions before burdening petitioners with any 
increase in processing fees. 

Please consider the loss to our students, should they be unable 
to experience the wide range of dance presented by other 
countries and cultures. Already, the Arts are underfunded. 
Increasing financial burden will only ensure that our students' 
education becomes increasingly narrow. 

Thank you for your consideration. 

Sincerely, 

Jessica Kruger Stahl WWU Dance Program Coordinator Western 
Washington University 516 High Street MS 9060 Bellingham, WA 
98225-9060  

Sincerely, 
Jessica Stahl 
WWU Dance Program Coordinator 
WWU Dance Program 
516 High Street 
MS 9060 
Bellingham, WA 98225-9060 

 cc:  
Senator Patty Murray 
Representative Rick Larsen 
Senator Maria Cantwell