From: mail.relay@mailmanager.net [mailto:mail.relay@mailmanager.net] On Behalf Of Toni 
Maschler 
Sent: Tuesday, March 27, 2007 4:32 PM 
To: OS Comments 
Subject: Opposing Immigration Fee Increase DHS Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044 

Toni Maschler 
1722 19th St. NW #203 
Washington, DC 20009-1651 

March 27, 2007 

OS Comments 

Dear OS Comments: 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
US Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Ave. NW, 3rd floor 
Washington DC 20529. 

RE:  DHS Docket # USCIS-2006-0044 

Proposed rule — Adjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit 
Application and Petition Fee Schedule 

As an attorney and an American I am deeply concerned about the proposed 
USCIS fee increase. 

I see clients every day who have postponed applying for green cards or 
naturalizing because of the already substantial fees.  

I am deeply troubled by the size and scope of the fee increase. USCIS 
plans to increase citizenship fees from $400 ($330 application fee plus 
$70 fingerprinting fee) to $675 ($595 application fee plus $80 
fingerprinting fee), an increase of 69 percent.  It would also raise fees 
for 37 other immigration and naturalization petitions and applications at 
an average increase of 66 percent.  Furthermore, it appears that the 
increase will take place at once rather than being spread out over a 
period of time. 

Rapid fee hikes of such magnitude will have a disproportionate and 
detrimental impact on the most vulnerable immigrants, serving to prevent 
refugees and others still struggling to establish themselves financially 
from obtaining the full status to which they are entitled. 

The massive and abrupt fee increase proposed by USCIS will delay or 
prevent aspiring Americans from becoming U.S. citizens, reuniting with 
their families, contributing their knowledge and skills to our economy, 
and settling into our society after having escaped persecution. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-A family of four LPRs who want to apply for U.S. citizenship at the same 
time will now have to have $2,700 at their disposal in order to achieve 
their American dream together. 

-A family of four which has been granted asylum in the U.S. and is 
applying for permanent residence will now need $3,620 in hand in order to 
apply for permanent residence. 

-Furthermore, asylees applying for permanent residence will be ineligible 
to apply for fee waivers, no matter how dire their financial situation may 
be, because USCIS intends to categorically eliminate fee waivers for I-485 
applications for adjustment as a part of the fee increase. 

-The proposal would also prohibit U.S. citizens and LPRs from requesting 
fee waivers on I-130 relative petitions on the grounds that the 
petitioners must file affidavits of support to show that they can support 
their beneficiaries should they be unable to do so themselves.  

Although some have justified a fee increase by stating that it will lead 
to faster processing, this is not guaranteed.  The proposal for this 
massive fee increase does not appear to set forth any concrete targets for 
improved processing time. 

In addition, while an upgrade to technology and infrastructure is clearly 
needed, user fees should not be the  sole means of funding these 
improvements.  

I hope that the agency will work with immigrant communities, and with 
Congress, to develop a functioning, effective immigration system that will 
benefit our country as a whole. 

Sincerely, 

Toni Maschler