From: Pfeffers [mailto:ppfeffer@aptalaska.net]  
Sent: Wednesday, May 02, 2007 12:53 AM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: [Docket No: USCIS-2006-0044];[FR Doc: E7-01631];[Page 4887-4915]; Immigration: 
Benefit application fee schedule adjustment 

Greetings; 

Although I wish to support and recognize the essential need to provide for "recovering the cost of 
providing similar services to asylum and refugee applicants and certain other immigrants at no 
charge."  I do strongly suggest a review of all fee increases well as structure analysis proposed 
for this application. 

It must be recognized that some outcomes requiring an application process may carry an 
inordinate burden for the general public.  It is such here and must be recognized and reviewed. 

I am part of the nation's people that is affected.  I am applying right now and have had to order 
duplicate documentation to allow my daughter to receive her Certificate of Citizenship before the 
proposed fee increase while also simultaneously applying for a passport which, due to existing 
travel requirements, are months delayed in processing due to the current demand.  My daughter 
became a citizen 3/15/03, one year after the citizenship act of 2/2002.  She received an AR3 visa 
into her country.  I am required by my adoption contract to obtain a Certificate of Citizenship.  
This is the document that should have been supplied initially.  Therefore, this fee increase seems 
extremely high as well as being an extra burden in my case specifically since she processed into 
the United States 13 months after the law passed making her a citizen.  I am not supportive af 
any fee increase for this application process. 

In addition, due to the transition in security awareness, I was required to receive a second 171H 
which meant I had to submit once again a Form I-600A  - Application for Advance Processing of 
Orphan Petition.  This means I purchased 2 visas for my child as the fee for these visas had been 
included into the application filing fee - one of these should have been for her Certificate of 
Citizenship!  As you can see I am very disgruntled with having to pay the fee as it exists now as it 
should not be required in my case. 

Overall, please recognize that I do not support the structure of the application process.  Because 
the future holds the need to also acquire a passport, I find there should be some structure to 
permit applying once to receive both documents thus streamlining the process resulting in a 
reduction in fees. 

Thank you for recognizing the need to assess the system more fully before increasing fees 
without considering the future transition elements that could provide for changing documentation 
demands and fee requirements. 

Penny Pfeffer 
PO Box 285 
Tok, AK 99780