From: mail.relay@mailmanager.net [mailto:mail.relay@mailmanager.net] On Behalf Of Patricia 
Hatch 
Sent: Tuesday, March 27, 2007 12:39 PM 
To: OS Comments 
Subject: DHS Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044 

Patricia Hatch 
9690 Basket Ring Road 
Columbia, MD 21045-3435 

March 27, 2007 

OS Comments 

Dear OS Comments: 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
US Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Ave. NW, 3rd floor 
Washington DC 20529. 

RE:  DHS Docket # USCIS-2006-0044 

Proposed rule — Adjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit 
Application and Petition Fee Schedule 

As an individual who has spent the past 25 years working directly with 
immigrants, first as Director of a non-profit organization and now as a 
program manager at a state government refugee office, I am deeply 
concerned about the proposed USCIS fee increase referenced above. 

I am deeply troubled by the sheer size and scope of the fee increase. 
USCIS plans to increase citizenship fees from $400 ($330 application fee 
plus $70 fingerprinting fee) to $675 ($595 application fee plus $80 
fingerprinting fee), an increase of 69 percent.  It would also raise fees 
for 37 other immigration and naturalization petitions and applications at 
an average increase of 66 percent.  Furthermore, it appears that the 
increase will take place at once rather than being spread out over a 
period of time. 

Rapid fee hikes of such magnitude will have a disproportionate and 
detrimental impact on the very immigrants whose hard work is sustaining 
our economy. (More than 50% of all new workers entering the American 
workforce are immigrants.) 

The massive and abrupt fee increase proposed by USCIS will delay or 
prevent many immigrants from becoming U.S. citizens, reuniting with their 
families, contributing their knowledge and skills to our economy, and 
settling into our society after having escaped persecution. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-A family of four LPRs who want to apply for U.S. citizenship at the same 
time will now have to have $2,700 at their disposal in order to achieve 
their American dream together. 

-A family of four which has been granted asylum in the U.S. and is 
applying for permanent residence will now need $3,620 in hand in order to 
apply for permanent residence. 

-Furthermore, asylees applying for permanent residence will be ineligible 
to apply for fee waivers, no matter how dire their financial situation may 
be, because USCIS intends to categorically eliminate fee waivers for I-485 
applications for adjustment as a part of the fee increase. 

The fee hike and the blanket ban on fee waivers on certain applications 
and petitions would be particularly burdensome to the substantial portion 
of the immigrants community which lives below the poverty level - in spite 
of holding full-time jobs and working long hours. 

In effect, these new fees will impose a MEANS TEST on U.S. citizenship, 
and even on adjustment of status for those we pride ourselves on having 
given humanitarian protection (asylees, refugees).  This is contrary to 
the egalitarian democratic values of our nation, and abhorrent to the 
moral values we claim to espouse. 

Given the speed, scope and scale of the proposed fee increase, I believe 
that USCIS customers must receive faster, greater, and more concrete 
improvements in processing times and customer service. The fee increase 
proposal itself does not appear to set forth any concrete targets and 
benchmarks for improvement in these areas. 

Finally, I believe that certain improvements which the USCIS wants to 
finance through the fee increase would be better addressed through the 
normal budget and appropriations process. For instance, while we support 
USCIS's efforts to improve its fraud detection capacity and to modernize 
its business and technological infrastructure, I do not believe that 
immigrants and their families should bear the sole burden for these 
efforts, any more than the average native-born American seeking taxpayer 
services should be expected to fund technological improvements and fraud 
detection at agencies such as the Internal Revenue Service by paying fees 
over and above their taxes. 

In conclusion, I urge USCIS to reconsider the proposed fee increase.  I 
hope that the agency will work with immigrant communities, and with 
Congress, to develop a functioning, effective immigration system that will 
benefit our country and the immigrants who will play a substantial role in 
its future. 

Sincerely, 

Patricia A. Hatch 
(410) 767-8970