From: mail.relay@mailmanager.net [mailto:mail.relay@mailmanager.net] On Behalf Of 
Lawrence Thompson 
Sent: Friday, March 09, 2007 3:20 PM 
To: Director of Regulatory Management Division 
Subject: Immigration fees 

Lawrence Thompson 
234 Shawnee Dr 
Carol Stream, IL 60188-1977 

March 9, 2007 

Director of Regulatory Management Division 
US Citizenship and Immigration Services, Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Ave. NW, 3rd floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

Dear Director of Regulatory Management Division: 

I am devoting the remainder of my life after retirement to helping the 
immigrant community in my neighborhood.  I love these people and see in 
them the future of America. 

I help them apply for immigration benefits.  These people for the most 
part are working at very low wages and are struggling to support their 
families.  They, like so many first-generation immigrants before them, 
including many of our forebears, really do appreciate the opportunity that 
is before them in the US and want to succeed and contribute to our 
society.  Our economy and our society is enriched by the positive 
attitudes and values that immigrants bring to us.  

The projected very sharp increase in application fees is incomprehensible 
to me other than as another expression of a hateful, anti-immigrant spirit 
that is so prevalent these days in our land.  Since the increase will only 
make application impossible for many or will take food from the mouths of 
immigrant children, I can only imagine that the motivation is to hinder 
these families from seeking residency or citizenship.  

I have regular classes for folks preparing for the citizenship English and 
civic exam.  When we are finished they actually know more about US civics 
than the typical native-born American.  Again, I can only view the plan to 
increase the complexity of the civics questions as a way to deny these 
people citizenship and diminish the number of applicants. 

I ask you to please oppose the plan to raise fees and make more 
complicated the civics examination.  I still want to think of my country 
as one that welcomes the immigrant.  We have more to lose than to gain 
from these initiatives. 

Sincerely, 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lawrence Thompson 
6306733351