@ungress st t[e lilnitBi StstBr
lfliluxfting tsn, rA6, eU515

April2,2007

Richard A. Sloan
Director, Regulatory Management Division
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services
Department of Homeland Security
I l l Massachusetts Avenue, NW, 3rd Floor
Washington, DC 20529

Dear Director Sloan:

The Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) has long defended the needs of immigrants
who come here to improve our nation, their own lives, and the lives of their families. In
addition to this commitment, the CHC aims to highlight the vital contributions
immigrants make to our communities and our economy. As such, we are concemed
about the fee increases proposed by the United States Citizenship and Immigration
Services (USCIS).

To an individual or family hoping for a better life in our country, an average increase of
66% is extremely steep. It would be cost prohibitive for a family who wants to come
here legally, play by the rules and contribute, and such an increase may have the perverse
result of inhibiting people from immigrating legally. This proposed increase is
effectively pricing potential legal immigrants out of benefits for which they are eligible.

We understand that it is important to review the costs of processing immigration
applications and the need for the agency to have the funds it needs to provide quality
services in an effrcient manner. However, also important is gauging the real rationale and
impact of potential cost increases. As presented, the proposed fee increase appears to
burden future legal immigrants with budget shortfalls and mismanagement of the past.
This is wrong. Moreover, we understand that, initially, the cost increase will not
necessarily be accompanied by service increases as USCIS works to implement
improvements. Customer service and processing backlogs have not improved enough to
justify such a steep fee increase. Predicting better service on the backs of the next wave
of immigrants we want to help strikes us not only as unfair, but also as a questionable
way to do business.

PRINTED ON RECYCLED PAPER

USCIS is tasked with a critical job that is vitally important to us, our constituents, and
this Congress. There axe many elements of the fee increase that we trust you will closely
consider. The proposed fee increase includes costs directly associated with processing
applications, as well as indirect costs, such as infrastructure improvements, automating A
files, and USCIS administrative headquarters. However, rather than burden applicants
with these costs, USCIS should have engaged Congress to cooperatively work to identifr
how to more appropriately cover those costs with appropriations or other means.

Baca

Congressional Hispanic Caucus

CHC Immigration Task Force