From: Saba Berhane [mailto:saba.berhane@ecdcinternational.org]  
Sent: Thursday, March 22, 2007 11:14 AM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: DHS Docket No. USCIS- 2006-0044 

PUBLIC COMMENT 

Ethiopian Community Development Council, Inc. (ECDC) 
901 S. Highland Street 
Arlington, VA 22204 
www.ecdcinternational.org  

Document ID: USCIS- 2006-0044 

Document Title: Adjustment of the Immigration Benefit Application  
and Petition Fee Schedule 

As a non-profit, community-based organization engaged in serving refugee and 
immigrant newcomers to the United States for 24 years, we are responding to the 
proposed fee increases in the referenced document with profound dismay and strong 
opposition.  

If implemented, the fees will become an even more onerous barrier to the achievement of 
America’s historic and admirable traditions of welcoming newcomers; encouraging their 
prompt and full integration into the nation’s mainstream; promoting family values and 
reunification; and providing support and encouragement to vulnerable populations. 

For those who have been in the country for several years as hard-working, tax-paying 
contributors to the nation’s economic and social welfare who now seek citizenship or a 
change in status, the fees represent a burdensome and unfair surtax not required of other 
taxpayers. Even though they may have begun the journey toward independence and self-
sufficiency traveled by previous generations of refugees and immigrants, most of those 
who will be most severely impacted by the higher fees remain on the lower rungs of the 
economic ladder. And they have already experienced incalculable costs in suffering and 
hardship. 

We recognize that USCIS is required under current law to collect fees adequate to fund 
the full cost of processing immigration and naturalization benefit applications and 
petitions and other services. However, as now proposed the fees are unfair, inequitable 
and counter-productive to other national goals and priorities of integration and self-

 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
sufficiency of newcomers.  We, therefore, urge that the law and policies be changed to 
respond to the need to fund the processing of immigration applications without imposing 
a financial burden on applicants.  

We urge officials at USCIS join us in seeking Congressional action to design and 
implement a more effective, constructive and compassionate funding program.  

A more appropriate model, we believe, would be the one that currently funds the passport 
program at the Department of State. Those who seek that benefit pay a modest fee, but 
they are not expected to pay for all administrative and operational costs.  

Until the law is changed to allow—and policies changed to support—increases in 
Congressionally-appropriated funds to cover such costs, we urge USCIS to seek greater 
internal efficiencies and cost-control measures to keep currently-required fees at the 
lowest possible level.