TO: Director, Regulatory Management Division 
United States Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Ave., NW 3rd Floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN: 

On behalf of the Hispanic Coalition, Corp., I write to strongly oppose the increase to 
immigration and naturalization fees that the U.S. Citizenship & Immigration Services 
(USCIS) proposed on February 1, 2007. 

The Hispanic Coalition is a not-for-profit Florida Corporation, which has been in 
existence since 1988. Among other services, the Hispanic Coalition has provided help in 
immigration-related matters to the community, not only in Miami, but throughout 
Florida, and the United States, this, the Hispanic Coalition has carried out, with 
assistance and training provided by Immigration itself, and/or DHS.   

Many of the immigrants and refugees we work with on a daily basis already struggle to 
pay immigration fees.  The steep increases proposed by USCIS, which in some cases 
double the current fee, would put the goals of gaining permanent resident status, reuniting 
with family members, and ultimately becoming a U.S. Citizen farther out of reach.  
USCIS should be building bridges for immigrants to move toward citizenship, not putting 
up walls. 

The proposed fee for naturalization is particularly jarring.  As recently as 1998, the cost 
to apply for citizenship was $95.00 dollars.  In 2002, after President Bush took office, the 
costs (including biometric fees) went up from $250.00 to $310.00.  The total fees are now 
$400.00, a fourfold increase in the past eight years.  Now USCIS is proposing a further 
increase of 70% ($675.00).  An immigrant working at a minim un-wage job would need 
to work for more than three weeks and save all of this earnings to pay this fee. 

Even more startling is the proposed cost of filing for adjustment of status, which for 
many immigrants is the first step on the road leading to U.S. citizenship.  That application 
has risen from $130.00 in 1998 to $325.00 today, plus $70.00 for biometrics.  Under the 
proposed rule, the price will rise to $905.00, plus $80.00 for biometrics.  In other words, 
it will cost nearly $1,000.00 dollars for an immigrant to get a green card and start the 
five-year countdown to citizenship.  A minimum-wage immigrant worker would need to 
save a full month's pay to afford the proposed fee. 

USCIS claims that the fee increase is necessary to improve service.  USCIS definitely 
needs to improve service, as shown by the continuing backlogs in application processing 
and the months-long (even years-long) delays caused by SECURITY CHECKS.  Last 
October, the Government Accountability Office reported that the agency had lost track of 
110,000 files needed to process citizenship cases.  Only in Miami, Florida thousand of 
cases were denied because Appointment letters for biometrics NEVER ARRIVED TO 

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
APPLICANTS OF CITIZENSHIP and N-400 Motion to reopen were filed to TSC in 
order for those immigrants to reopen their citizenship applications denied without their 
knowledge of biometrics.   

The Hispanic Coalition applaud USCIS's efforts to improve service.  We nevertheless 
believe that the burden of paying for such improvements should not rest solely with 
immigrants who are already struggling to pay agency costs and receiving poor service. 

USCIS also argues that it has not other option than raising fees if it wants to cover its 
costs.  In fact, there are not laws that require USCIS to fund all of its operations through 
fees.  Nothing prevent USCIS from pursuing other sources of revenue, including asking 
Congress for appropriations.  Indeed, USCIS has sought and received Congressional 
funding several times in the past. 

Immigration and citizenship are public goods that benefit our entire country and that we 
as a nation should help pay for.  Immigrants bring their talent and hard work to our 
economy.  We pay taxes and help revitalize our communities.  In becoming citizens, 
immigrants demonstrate their strong commitment to our new home country by learning 
English, gaining knowledge about North America history and government, and swearing 
allegiance to the United States.  It is little wonder that newly naturalized citizens, eager to 
participate in our democracy, consistently vote at higher rates than other citizens. We 
should be encouraging immigrants to become part of our community by gaining legal 
status and becoming U.S. Citizens, not setting up barriers that block their path and keep 
them out. 

For all these reasons, the proposal to increase immigration fees is misguided and 
counterproductive.  We urge USCIS to reconsider this proposal, and to seek other sources 
of funding for its operations, rather than add more burdens on immigrants.   

Thank you for your consideration. 

Cordially, 

Rosa E. Kasse
President, 
Hispanic Coalition Corp. 
5659 W. Flagler Street 
Miami, Florida 33134 
(305) 262-0060