From: vasquezt@hvc.rr.com [mailto:vasquezt@hvc.rr.com]  
Sent: Wednesday, March 28, 2007 2:03 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: USCIS-2006- 0044 

To whom it may concern, 
I'm writing in regards to the proposed fee increases.  I'm sure I'm 
among the thousands who will be affected by these increases and I'm 
also sure they would all agree that the new charges, simply put, are 
outrageous.  

Adoptions, especially international adoptions are extremely expensive 
for most of us in working classes.  While we share the same 
sentiments, the desire to change a child's life and in many ways 
fulfill our own desires of having a family, we also have unique 
circumstances that have led us to adopt. 

In our case, we have been trying to  have children for over 15 years.  
We've exhausted most of our savings with expensive medical treatments 
and procedures that our medical insurance carriers would not cover.  
And so we turned to adoption. Our first attempt resulted in utter 
horror.  It was a domestic adoption that ended one week prior to the 
delivery with a still-born death.  We were devastated and 
heartbroken.  We also lost everything we had invested in the adoption. 

A few months later, we decided to try again with a new agency.  This 
time we turned to China for an international adoption.  It has now 
been over 16 months since we began this journey and our expected 
waiting time for a referral is still over 14 months away.  

Seemingly every month the referrals are taking longer and we are now 
facing the reality of having to have our documentation redone.  The 
initial costs of the documents was a heavy burden for us and now we're 
facing increases on top of  that as well. 

Adopting a child should not be this difficult.  For most of us, the 
reason we're adopting is because it is our last hope of achieving a 
family.  We've exhasusted all other means and resources and now must 
deal with more financial hardships.  Please reconsider your proposal 
in raising the fees.  If not for the families, then for the hundreds 
of thousands of children who need one. 

Thank You, 
Tom Vasquez