From: mail.relay@mailmanager.net [mailto:mail.relay@mailmanager.net] On Behalf Of Dana 
Keeth 
Sent: Friday, March 30, 2007 1:00 PM 
To: USCIS Comments 
Subject: DHS Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044 - USCIS Fee Increase Comment 

Dana Keeth 
15 Garrison Rd 
Belmont, MA 02478-4607 

March 30, 2007 

USCIS Comments 

Dear USCIS Comments: 

I am writing to you as an international educator in opposition to the 
February 1, 2007, proposed rule "Adjustment of the Immigration and 
Naturalization Benefit Application and Petition Fee Schedule."  Congress 
and USCIS must reconsider the role of appropriated funds to meet the 
administrative needs of the agency.  

User fees should be designed to cover the cost of processing a particular 
applicant's request. In the proposed rule, applicants and beneficiaries 
are required to bear substantial costs that are unrelated to the costs of 
processing their request for benefits. The United States must instead be 
willing to invest in the substantial infrastructure changes needed to 
truly meet the goals outlined in the proposed rule and supplementary 
material. The desired modernization, streamlining, efficiencies and 
security enhancements are critical. Congress must address this 
responsibility. 

The proposed fees are exorbitant and need to be drastically reduced. In 
particular, attention must be given to the fees paid by the family members 
of principal applicants.  We urge the Service to devise a more equitable 
model for derivative family members and we would argue that the time spent 
on these applications is a fraction of that spent on the principal's 
request. 

We are grateful for the Service's numerous processing and technological 
enhancements made to date. Going forward, we appreciate the Service's 
commitment to upgrading facilities, adding and training staff, automating 
and modernizing processes, and reducing processing times. 

Thank you for the opportunity to comment. 

Sincerely, 

Ms. Dana Bresee Keeth 
617-489-4380 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This message has been verified by CapwizXC as authentic and sent by this 
individual.  Authentication ID: [49hjstz5] 

Changed message text: 92.3%