April 2, 2007 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
Department of Homeland Security 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
111 Massachusetts Avenue, N.W., 3rd Floor 
Washington, D.C. 20529 

Re: 

Response to Proposal to Filing Fee Increase, Docket Number USCIS- 
2006-0044 

Via Email: OSComments@dhs.gov

To Whom It May Concern: 

In response to the U.S. Citizen & Immigration Services’ proposed rule regarding 
increasing  the  filing  fees,  Docket  Number  USCIS-2006-0044,  please  find  below  our 
comments.  The  following  represents  the  concerns  of  our  law  office  as  well  as  those 
expressed to us by our clients. 

First Issue:  

The U.S. Citizenship & Immigration Services has determined that these fees are 

necessary to fully fund the Immigration Examination Fee Account.  

Our First Response: 
It is Unfair for Foreign Nationals and Their Sponsors to Fully Fund the  
Immigration Examination Fee Account 

To  begin  with,  it  is  unfair  to  expect  that  foreign  nationals  and  their  sponsors 
should fully fund the Immigration Examination Fee Account. It is not proper nor is it just 
to  expect  that  extending  immigration  benefits  in  the  United  States  be  premised  on 
whether  these  very  same  immigrants  (and  their  sponsors)  can  fund  their  benefits.  The 
extension  of  immigration  benefits  to  qualified  immigrants  is  a  government  service  that 
should  more  appropriately  be  funded  by  the  U.S.  government  and  not  be  fully 
underwritten by those for whom the benefits are to be extended. 

Since we are in April, it is only fitting to contemplate how this would play out in 
the  income  tax  arena.  That  is,  would  we  truly  expect  U.S.  taxpayers  to  underwrite  the 
expenses incurred to collect income taxes? The answer is that we would not tolerate this. 
To  merely  suggest  this  would  result  in  an  uproar  that  would  forever  silence  the 
suggestion.  Likewise,  requiring  immigrants  and  their  sponsors  to  fully  underwrite  the 
benefits that are extended to them should also not be tolerated. 

Our Second Response: 
This Increase Does Not Fully Capture the True Ballooning Effect of H-1B Filing Fees  
and Its Impact on the U.S. Economy 

  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
In order to stay competitive globally, it is critical that U.S. employers continue to 
be able to sponsor foreign nationals for work visas. This country is already facing a true 
crisis due to the inadequate supply of H-1B visas for foreign national professionals. Last 
year,  all  new  H-1B  numbers  available  were  exhausted  less  than  two  months  after  they 
were available. This year, it is expected that new H-1B numbers will be exhausted much 
faster – possibly days after new H-1B numbers are available.  

This  H-1B  crisis  is  particularly  acute  when  we  contemplate  the  additional  filing 
fees employers are now responsible for – should they be fortunate enough to be able to 
secure  one  of  these  scarce  H-1B  numbers.  According  to  the  U.S.  Citizenship  & 
Immigration Services, these increases in filing fees are merely keeping up with inflation. 
However, this might not be the case when we factor in the two other mandatory fees for 
H-1B  filings  added  in  the  21st  century,  including  the  American  Competitiveness  in  the 
21st Century Act, which mandates an additional $1,500 in filing fees (or $750 for smaller 
firms)  to  improve  the  global  competitiveness  of  the  U.S.  workforce,  and  the  additional 
$500 now required to combat fraud. Finally, if an employer is unable to wait the four to 
six months it typically takes for an H-1B case to be adjudicated, the employer also faces a 
$1,000  fee  for  premium  processing.  Thus,  combined  filing  fees  for  a  single  H-1B  is 
generally  $3,190  (or  $2,190  if  the  employer  elects  not  to  expedite  the  case).    While  in 
1998 the filing fee was a mere $130 with no mandatory additional fees, with the proposed 
increase to $320, filing fee increases for H-1Bs balloon to an overall increase of 2,354% 
for an employer electing premium processing or 1,685% to an employer choosing to wait 
the  four  to  six  months  or  so  by  not  electing  premium-processing  service.  These  fee 
increases  serve  to  severely  undermine  the  ability  of  U.S.  employers  to  hire  foreign 
workers,  which  in  turn  severely  undermines  the  ability  of  U.S.  workers  to  compete 
globally.  

Our Third Response: 
If Fee Increases Are Inevitable, the U.S. Citizenship & Immigration Services  
Should Broaden the Fee Waivers to Protect the Interests of the U.S. Public 

School Systems 

For  more  vulnerable  sectors  of  our  economy,  including  the  Public  School 
Systems,  this  fee  increase  would  be  crippling.  This  would  truly  represent  a  financial 
hardship for the Public School Systems that are already overburdened. In addition, since 
public funds go to support the Public School Systems, this would not be in the interest of 
the public good to unduly burden the Public School Systems with a sharp increase in fees 
for their teachers. In short, this increase might undermine the ability of the Public School 
Systems  to  continue  to  use  foreign  talent  in  their  classrooms,  which  is  vital  given  the 
shortage  of  U.S.  teachers.  Therefore,  the  U.S.  Citizenship  and  Immigration  Services 
should  act  to  safeguard  the  interests  of  this  vulnerable  institution  by  carving  out  an 
exception in the proposed fee schedule for our schools. 

Second Issue: 

  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
The  U.S.  Citizenship  &  Immigration  Services  has  determined  that  it  would  be 

more convenient to merge the fees for certain applications. 

Our Response: 
It Would Be Unfair to Merge Fees Since Not All Applicants Apply for the Same 
Services. Thus, Merging Fees Requires Many Applicants to Pay for Unneeded 
Immigration Benefits. 

As  stated  above,  by  merging  filing  fees,  the  U.S.  Citizenship  &  Immigration 
Services is forcing applicants to pay for immigration benefits they may not need – or for 
which they may not be eligible. For example, individuals in H or L classification do not 
need  to  apply  for  Advance  Parole  Travel  Documents  or  Employment  Authorization 
Documents when they file Adjustment of Status Applications. In addition, children do not 
generally need to apply for Employment Authorization Documents. By forcing everyone 
to  pay  consolidated  fees,  the  U.S.  Citizenship  and  Immigration  Services  assumes  that 
everyone  is  seeking  the  same  immigration  benefits,  which  is  often  not  the  case.  In 
addition, many foreign nationals cannot and should not apply for Advance Parole Travel 
Documents, such as those who are grandfathered under Section 245(i) of the Immigration 
and Nationality Act, yet by merging the fees, they would nevertheless be required to pay 
for this application. Finally, it is noteworthy to mention that Immediate Relatives of U.S. 
Citizens  are  now  not  given  Employment  Authorization  Documents  or  Advance  Parole 
Travel Documents until after the interview if their case cannot be immediately approved 
(because,  normally,  they  are  stuck  in  a  name  check).  Thus,  it  appears  that  the  U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services is inappropriately requesting fees from many who 
may never need nor be eligible for particular immigration benefits.  

In short, if it were not bad enough to request foreign nationals and their sponsors 
to fully 

fund the Immigration Examination Fee Account, requiring them to fund it for unneeded 
services is even more egregious.  

Conclusion 

In sum, this dramatic fee increase should be rejected and the U.S. Citizenship and 

Immigration Services should reconsider its proposal. 

Sincerely, 

Magali S. Candler 
Head of Litigation