Christopher J. Viers 
Franklin Hall 306, 601 E. Kirkwood Avenue 
Bloomington, IN 47405 

March 21, 2007 

USCIS Comments 

Dear USCIS Comments: 

I am writing on behalf of Indiana University Bloomington (IUB) in my 
capacity as Associate Dean of International Programs and Director of the 
Office of International Services in opposition to the February 1, 2007, 
proposed rule "Adjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit 
Application and Petition Fee Schedule." 

Indiana University currently enrolls 3,687 international students, and is 
host to approximately 1,000 visiting international faculty, researchers 
and staff.  The significant increases in fees as proposed will serve as a 
major disincentive for international students and scholars to study and 
work in the United States.  It is therefore imperative that the United 
States Citizenship and Immigration Service (USCIS) reconsider the role of 
appropriated funds necessary to meet the administrative needs of the 
agency.  I respectfully ask that immigration benefit and application 
petition fees be reduced to the actual cost of processing the relevant 
application or petition.   

In order to support our important teaching, research, and service 
missions, IUB international students, faculty and hiring departments file 
several thousand petitions and applications with USCIS annually.  To 
illustrate the impact the proposed fees will have on our critical 
contributions to the state of Indiana and indeed the world, I offer the 
following: 

•       Form I-765 is used for international students in F status to apply for 
work authorization under Optional Practical Training, and for J-2 
dependents to apply for work authorization as well.  We assist in the 
filing of approximately 900 of these applications each year for the 
Bloomington campus.  With a fee increase from $180 to $340, the financial 
impact would be $144,000 on our students and their dependents.  Compare 
the proposed Form I-765 processing fee increase to recent initiatives in 
Canada, a country which has recently granted extended work permission to 
all international students for an application fee of $150CAN.  The 
exorbitant increase as proposed will clearly serve as a disincentive to 
study in the United States for these students. 

•       The increases in the fees required in connection with change of status 
from F to H-1B, including the increase from $200 to $300 (a 50 percent 
increase) in the I-539 application to change nonimmigrant status for 
dependents and the increase from $190 to $320 (a 68 percent increase) in 
the I-129 petition for nonimmigrant worker.  These fees are on top of the 
required data collection and fraud prevention fee, which is not part of 
the fee schedule.  IUB files 120 H-1B petitions annually, and as required 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
by regulation, the associated fees are paid by our hiring departments.  
The fee increase as proposed would add $15,600 to already tight 
recruitment and hiring budgets.    

•       The huge increases in the fees required to adjust status from H-1B to 
lawful permanent residence (green-card status), including: the 
near-tripling of the I-485 application fee for permanent residence, from 
$325 to $905; and the increase from $195 to $475 (143 percent) in the 
I-140 immigrant petition for alien worker.  While the proposed increase in 
the I-485 fee is partly offset by the fact that it is accompanied by the 
elimination of additional filing fees for work authorization and for 
permission to re-enter the U.S. after traveling abroad, the inclusion of 
these fees in the proposed new I-485 fee means that they would have to be 
paid even by those who do not expect to require the benefit.  
IU-Bloomington files approximately 30 direct petitions per year, and as a 
result, the proposed fee increases would require our academic departments 
to reallocate $25,800 from critical academic initiatives in order to cover 
these dramatic fee increases.  The financial impact on our foreign 
national faculty and staff members will also be significant as the 
increases in fees will have a severe impact on their families.  For 
example, I-485 applications for a family of four would cost $3620.  

At a time when our nation has a shortage of highly skilled workers, these 
fees will have a chilling effect on our continued ability to attract and 
retain the world's most gifted scholars. Apart from the direct impact of 
the excessive fees, they are contrary to clearly expressed U.S. policies.  
The President, the Secretary of State, and indeed the Secretary of 
Homeland Security have expressed clearly and often the high value that the 
United States places on attracting international students and scholars to 
this country.  The United States reaps immeasurable benefits—for our 
foreign policy, our students' education, our economy, our global 
competitiveness, and our public diplomacy—from attracting the best and 
brightest minds and the next generation of world leaders to America's 
educational institutions.  

As Indiana University President Adam Herbert testified before the Senate 
Committee on Foreign Relations in October of 2004, "stemming the flow of 
international students and scholars who want to participate in our 
academic life also stems the free flow of knowledge and ideas.  The 
Outstanding programs we have worked to build at IU - many of which further 
national strategic interests - are at risk." 

Regrettably, the increased fees will only reinforce the inefficiencies 
USCIS inherited from the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) when 
the Department of Homeland Security was created.  The solution to 
correcting the systemic problems that plague the agency is not to keep 
raising fees in a futile attempt to finance a twenty-first century agency. 
 Unfortunately, to meet its statutory requirements, USCIS is turning to 
its only steady source of funding, its filers and petitioners, to finance 
the required modernization of its systems.  While that is understandable, 
it is not acceptable as a matter of public policy, because it prices 
statutory benefits out of the reach of those who need them.  

Premium Processing for H-1Bs, for example, was promised as a temporary 
fee.  In fact, the premium processing program has been expanded to other 
categories.  Now we're told premium processing will remain in place, but 

 
 
 
 
 
the supplementary information in the Federal Register states that the 
revenue will be used to fund infrastructure improvements.  These 
initiatives do not accurately reflect the true processing cost of I-129 
petition.  

This agency has made numerous attempts at increased efficiencies.  
Meanwhile, colleges and universities have been forced to navigate an 
ever-changing bureaucratic sea, including fee increases and promises of 
improved services which have not materialized, except in very narrow and 
specific areas.  The implementation of SEVIS (for F, J and M programs) has 
both strengthened institutional accountability and communication to DHS 
and its agencies.  Maintaining old systems is, in many cases, now 
redundant and unnecessary.  The I-765 fee for Optional Practical Training 
is a classic example.  A number of years ago it was possible for school 
officials designated by the INS to approve OPT (like they currently 
approve pre-graduation work permission via Curricular Practical Training) 
in accordance with agency regulations.  The benefits of reinstituting and 
expanding this process speak for themselves: no application, no 
processing, no fee, one less task to be performed by the agency, and more 
time to devote to what the agency really needs to do.  There is no obvious 
public policy reason for USCIS to require agency approval for OPT today.  

Perhaps the time has come to audit USCIS practices, realize the full 
advantages provided by SEVIS, and use Congressional appropriations to fund 
national priorities, rather than unnecessary bureaucratic processes. 

While I understand that USCIS is permitted by law to recover the full cost 
of its services through fees, and indeed has no other option so long as 
Congress is unwilling to appropriate funds for the operation of the 
agency, I ask that the fees be set to reflect the actual cost of 
processing the application or petition.  Meanwhile, I ask Congress to step 
up to its responsibility for fixing the untenable situation that drives 
these fee increases. 

Thank you for the opportunity to comment. 

Sincerely, 

Christopher J. Viers, Ph.D. 
812-855-9086 

This message has been verified by CapwizXC as authentic and sent by this 
individual.  Authentication ID: [i6892RIH] 

Changed message text: 89.6%