i 

I 

0 4 / 0 2 / 2 0 0 7   1 0 : 5 9   FAX 6 5 1   2 2 2   0 7 4 5  

YN LEG SERV COALITION 

m o o 1  

MINNESOTA LEGAL SERVICES  COALITION 

2324 UNIVERSITY  AVENUE WEST 
SUITE  10 1 6 
MIDTOWN COMMONS 
ST. PAUL, MINNESOTA 5 5  1 14 
(65 1) 228-91 05 
FAX (65 1 )  222-0745 

e-mail:  s t a ~ e s u ~ o o r ~ @ m n l e a a l s ~ r v i c e ~ . o r ~  

wehsites: www.mnleaalservices,orq 
w.ProJusticeMN.orq 
w . L a w H e l ~ M N . a r q  

State Suauort:  Director: 
Maureen O'Cannell{toc) 
Suoervisina  Attortlev: 
Jessie  Spire  Carlson  ii 14) 
MLSC Staff: 
Ann  Conray  111 1 )  
Jahn Freeman  ( 1 0 6 )  
Susan  A.  Koberstein 11 13, 
Patriclc Noonan (1 10) 
Mary  Rea  11081 

FAX 

DATE: 

RE:/ 

do&# " u J r  15 -264 -0oy-j 

TOTAL PAGES INCLUDING COVER: 

Notes: 

m l s   may mnlaln mntldenUaI andumileged lnhrmaLfan.  rPpu.am oor me InCendco' redpIenC 
ddose ih mntents Call or send md  an email lo a&e  d plls e m .   7Ymnkyou. 

desbay mIs and do not 

Mlnnesata  Leuel Servicms Coalltlon 19  The Support  Centof for Laoel Sarvicsq in  M l n n e ~ n ~ ~  

0 4 / 0 2 / 2 0 0 7   1 1 : 0 0   FAX 6 5 1   2 2 2   0 7 4 5  

YN LEG SERV COALITION 

MID-MINNESOTA LEGAL ASSISTANCE 

A- 

> 

430 FIRST AVENUE NORTH, SUITE 300 
MINNEAPOLIS, MN  55401-1780 
TELEPHONE! (811) 332-1441 
FACSIMILE  (612) 334-5766 

MICHAEL FEICHTINGER 
presldenl 

JEREMY LANE 
executlue direclot 

LISA COHEN 
director of administration 

1 

I 

I 

I 

April 2,2007 

Director, Regulatory Mal~agement Divlaon 
US Citizenship and Immigration Services 
DepatTInent of Homeland Security 
11 1 Massachusetts Ave. NW, 3d floor 
Washington DC 20529. 

RE:  DHS Docket # USCIS-2006-0044 
Proposed rule-  Adjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit Application 
and Petition Fee Schedule 

On behalf of four non-profit legal servlce providers, I am writing to stroi~gly oppose the 
substanhal increase in in~nligration and naturalization fees that US Citizenship and Immigration 
Service (USCIS) proposcd on February 1,2007. 

Who We Are 
We are a coalition of lion-profit legal service organizations that provide immigrati,on 
reptesentation to low-income persons in Minnesota and North Dakota. Our organizations include 
Cenbo Legal, Inc., b i g r a n t  Law Center ofMinnesota, Mid-Miru~esota Legal Assistance, and 
Minnesota Advocates for Human Rights, 

Many of the low-income i,mrnigrants that we work with a1,ready struggle to pay immigration fees. 
Th,e steep increases proposcd by USCIS, which in some cases double the current fee, would 
unfairly affect the poor and disabled, decrease the quality of CIS submissions, discourage family 
reuni,fication, and putt  the goals of lawful permanent residence a11d citizens hi,^ farther out of 
reach.  USCIS should be building bridges toward citizenship, n,ot creating obstacles. 

Bacl~ground 
The proposed fee for naturalization illustrates the h,ardship faced by immigrant applicants. As 
recently as 1998, the cost to apply for citizenship was $95.  'in 2002, the costs (ii~cluding 
biometric fees) went up fiom $250 to $310.  The total fees are now $400, a fourfold increase in 
the past eight years. USCIS now proposes a further increase of 70%, to $675.  An immigrant 
working at a minimum-wage job would need to work for more than three weeks and save all of 
his earnings in order to pay this fee. 

Even more startling is the proposed cost of filing for adjustment of status, whi,ch for many 
immigrants is the first step on the road leading to US citizenship.  That application ]>,as risen from 
$130 in  1998 to $325 today, plus $70 for biometries. Under the proposed rule, the price will rise 

~ s r n b s r  Corporations: Legal Aid Society of Minneapolis. SI. Cloud Ares  Legal S~rvicss * Western Minnosota Legal Sewlces 

1 
I 

! 

0 4 / 0 2 / 2 0 0 7   1 1 : 0 0   FAX 6 5 1   2 2 2   0 7 4 5  

YN LEG SERV COALITION 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
US Citizenship and Immigration Services 
April 2,2007 
Page 2 

to $905 plus $80 for biometrics.  In other words, it will cost nearly $1,000 in fees alone for an 
immigrant to get a green card and start the five-year countdown to citizenship.  A miiii,n~um- 
wage immigrant worker would need to save a full month's pay to afford the proposed fee. 

Poor and Disabled Immigrants 
The proposed fee increase would have a devastating and disproportionate impact on refugees, 
msab'led, impoverished, and elderly immigrants. In theory, poor and disabled immigrants qualify 
to seek fee waivers when submitting benefit applications to USCIS. In practice, USCIS routj,nely 
dcnies those waiver requests, requiring budensome documentation of eligibility and applyin,g 
waiver standards indiscrimiaate'ly. Many immigrants eligible to receive fee waivers end up 
paying the full ainount of their application fees just to get their submissions processed.  Fee 
waivers arc meaningless alternatives to high application fees when USCIS makes them too 
difficult to obtain. 

The proposed fee increase would place many refugees aod disabled imm,igrants in jeopardy of 
losing subsisten~e income. A high percentage of refugees suffer from physical or mental 
disabilities, a result of persecution or abuse ill their homeland. Disabled refugees and asyle~s 
who entcrcd the U.S. after august 22,  1996 can access Supplemental Security Income (SSI) for 
only 7 years &om the date they became a refugee or asylee. Their benefits are cut off at the end 
of th,at period unless they naturalize, and become U.S. citizens. Disabled immigrants receiving 
SSI cannot afford to pay the proposed $675 applicati,on fee to natura:lize. Fee waiver requests 
f?om  eligible applicants are routinely denied. Disabled immigrants unable to pay the increased 
naturalization fee will be terminated horn SSI, leaving them with no resources to cover their 
basic living expenses. 

Qnality of Subn~issions 
Substantially raising application fees will likely increase the percentage of applicatia~~s being 
submitted pro se, or without the assistance of legal professionals. Higher fees will leave many 
immigrants unable to afford both application and attorney fees. This will decrease the quality of 
applications being submitted, and increase the time and difficulty required by USCIS officials to 
process those applications. USCJS will issue more Rcquests for Evidence (WEs) aud Notices of 
Intent to Deny (NOD), in an attempt to complete deficient applications. This will increase, 
rather than decrease, application processing times. Instead of improving effici,ency, the hi,gher 
fees will have the opposite effect of decreasing the quality of submissions, further tying up 
USCIS resolwes. 

Family Reunification 
The ultimate outcome of a significant fee increase will be to reduce the nuin~ber of immigration 
application,$ being filed. Because of a lack of resources, immigrants will be farced to defer, or 
even forgo, submitting applications for which they qualify. This will di,scourage family 
rzunif cation and, in some instances, even separate existing family units. Higher filing fees will 
make some immigrants unable to petition for their eligible family members. In other cases, high 
fees will discourage lawful permanent residents from applying for citizenship. Witliout the 
protection of citiza~ship, those immigrants will be increasing1.y vulnerable to removal from the 

0 4 / 0 2 / 2 0 0 7   11:OO  FAX 6 5 1   2 2 2   0 7 4 5  

MN LEG SERV COALITION 

Director, Regulatory Management D~vision 

;.  US Citizenshp and hinigailon Servtces 

April 2,2007 
Page 3 

U.S. An increase in the removal of naturalization-eligible immigrants will break up mixed-status 
families. 

Alternative Outions 
USCIS argues that it has no other option than I-aising fees if it wants to cover its costs.  In fact, 
there are no laws that require USCIS to fund all of its operations through fees.  Nothing 
USCIS !?om  pursuing other sources of revenue, including asking Congress for appropriations. 
Indeed, USCIS has sought and received Congressional funding several times in the past. Our 
organizations support the Citizenship Promotion Act of 2007 (S. 795fH.R. 1379), which would 
authorize USCIS to request appropriations to make up the difference between fees charged md 
the amount needed to fully firnd USCIS operalj,ons and infrastructure. 

We applaud USCIS efforts to ilnprove service.  We nevertheless believe that the burden of 
paying for such improvements should not rest solely with immigrants who are already struggling 
to pay agency costs and receiving poor selvice.  Immigration and citizenship benefit our entire 
country and as a nation, we should invest in. making the immi,gation system work effectively and 
efficiently. Immigrants bring their talent and hard work to om: economy.  They pay taxes and 
help revitalize our communities.  In becoming citizen,$, immigrants demonstrate their strong 
commitment to their new home country by learning English, gaining knowledge about American 
histoy and government, and swearing allegiance to the United States.  Newly natmalized 
citizens, eager to participate in our democracy, consistently vote at higher rates than other 
citizens.  We should be encouraging immigrants to become part of our cornmu~iity by gaining 
legal status and becoming citizens, not setting up barriers that bl,ock thei,r path and keep them 
out. 

For all these reasons, the proposal to increase iminigration fees is misguided and 
counterproductive. We urge USCIS to reconsider this proposal, and to seek other sources of 
funding for its operations, rather than add more burdens on immigrants.  Thank you for your 
consideration. 

~xecuiive Director 

C:Wocurncnts and Scninpsbnkubcrslcin\Loc~I Srtlings\Tcmpol~a~y Inrernel Files\OLK5Y\April 2 ILAA Fec Commcl~ts Modeldoc Modcl.40~