Dear Director, 
Regulatory Management Division, 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, 
Department of Homeland Security, 

My name is Kevin Kujawa and I am an International Student 
Advisor and Counselor at the Minneapolis Community and Technical 
College in, Minneapolis, Minnesota. I have been employed in this 
position for more than 20 years. 

International students frequently use these forms and the increase will 
cause significant economic hardship for many of these students. Many 
students seeks reinstatement or employment permission specifically 
because of economic hardship. The rate increases will discourage these 
applications and encourage or result in students working without 
permission or not seeking reinstatement and simply going underground, so 
to speak. The means of waiving the fee is seldom granted and too 
cumbersome to work, so few if any of these students will utilize such. 

When the fees increased in rates in the past, at least on one occasion, 
it was to help the service provide quicker and more efficient service. 
This never occurred unless you assume that a 3 month wait is good 
service.  

In simply do not believe that the purpose of the increase is to cover 
the cost of processing the applications. Stop using foreigners to fund 
your service. The congressional appropriations process and appropriate 
management practices is suppose to do such. 

The proposed fees increases for the forms In-765 ( proposed new fee: 
$340), In-539  (proposed new fee: $300), and I-102 (proposed new fee: 
$320) appears to me to be, at best,  unwarranted and at worst, predatory 
in nature. I will encourage my congressional representatives to 
investigate these exorbitant  increases. 

Congress, the president, business and educational leaders in the US are 
all encouraging more international students to enter the US for their 
education. These fee increases will discourage any increase in students 
coming to the US. 

Please do not dramatically increase your fees. 

Kevin Kujawa 

Counselor and Advisor to 
  International Students and Scholars, 
  PDSO & RO 

Minneapolis Community and Technical College               
1501 Hennepin Avenue, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota  55403 USA 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Office: +1.612.659.6705 
Fax: +1.612.659.6710 
E-mail: Kevin.Kujawa@Minneapolis.edu