From: Sharp, Lorin [mailto:lorins@slac.stanford.edu]  
Sent: Monday, April 02, 2007 12:51 AM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: [DHS Docket No: USCIS-2006-0044-0001];[FR Doc: E7-01631];[Page 4887-4915]; 
Immigration: Benefit application fee schedule adjustment-FROM ADOPTIVE PARENTS L. & K. 
SHARP 

Re: Document #USCIS-2006-0044-0001 

Dear Director:  We, as adoptive parents to an internationally adopted child, are particularly 
concerned about this Adjustment of the Immigration Benefit Application/ Petition and Biometric 
Fee Schedule. We oppose the increase – especially for adoption applications, as anyone who 
has started adoption at this point in time, as has each adoption applicant in the past 6 months, 
will surely have to refile after 18 months. This is because foreign adoptions from China are taking 
well over 15-16 months to complete. This makes these fee increases especially burdonsome to 
those of us already paying a tremendous amount in fees to various agencies throughout our 
adoption process.  The fees had already gone up in 2006 to begin with. 

Unless the expiration date of the I-600/1-600A, fingerprinting & I171H is extended from 18 to at 
least 24 months—and thereby allowing enough time for the adoption to be completed—the fee 
increases should be allayed so adoptive parents-to-be are not paying twice for the same services 
and taking up administrative time that could otherwise be utilized on other applications.  This is a 
pointless and wasteful use of time for everyone involved.  We ask that you reconsider this double 
jeopardy that we adopting families are placed under. It is one thing to raise costs periodically to 
keep up with inflation and maintain efficiency, it is quite another to not only go above our costs of 
living, but to hit us twice when these families and agencies work so hard in the first place to be 
able to provide for their future children. 

We appreciate the efforts of USCIS to provide the valuable service it does.  Please consider a fair 
compromise for U.S. adoptive parents so we can continuing to be encouraging to others that 
international adoption is a viable and valued way for anyone to build a family. 

Sincerely, 

Lorin & Ken Sharp