From: JoeyLynn Lott [mailto:joey_and_lynn@yahoo.com]  
Sent: Tuesday, March 27, 2007 4:56 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: DHS Docket No. USCIS 2006-0044 

Expenses associated with international adoption are already more enormous!! 
 Many of us have already filed for the I600-A and will have to refile 
soon due to lengthening adoption timeframes.   

The fee increase for these services is inappropriate without concurrently extending  
the time that an I171-H is valid.  By increasing these fees and not extending the amount 
of time the documents are valid, I believe you are not taking into consideration families 
who desperately want to adopt and are taking on a huge financial burden already.  The 
validity of the I171-H should be extended to at least 24 months!! 

These higher costs really are a problem for many families!!!!  Please do not raise the rates 
associated with these filings.  We have already had to pay once and that cost was more 
than enough for those of us with limited finances. 

International adoption waiting times have been significantly increasing the past 18 
months for a variety of overseas programs.  Families are finding that they need to renew 
at least once, if not twice, during the wait.   

The requirement that for renewal of an I171-H, fingerprints must be taken  
again is not appropriate!   Is this simply an effort to gain more money from us??  This 
seems a bit redundant!!  Once the fingerprints are taken for the initial application, they 
need to be made readily retrievable until the adoption is complete and used again at the 
FBI, if necessary.  Fingerprints do not change and requiring adoptive families to travel 
great distances and PAY AGAIN for a second round of fingerprinting for a renewal is 
ridiculous and unacceptable.  This is made even more frustrating by the fact that I am not 
able to call and even speak to anyone at the USCIS in Memphis.  I am only able to call 
and listen to voice recordings.  My husband and I have already paid to have our 
fingerprints again.  We have received our receipt of payment back from the USCIS.  
However, it did not have any letter of explanation of what we need to do now in order to 
actually get the prints taken!  I would think a letter explaining the procedure to get prints 
taken again would not be too hard to enclose in an envelope!  I have called and even tried 
to set up an appointment using the info pass on the internet, however, I still have no idea 
when I can actually go to the USCIS and get my prints taken.  I am a working American.  
I teach school everyday!  I love my job.  I do not get paid a lot of money.  I do my job 
because I love my special needs students.  I need to know ahead of time when I can have 
an appointment or even simply “show up” to get prints taken AGAIN so that I can make 
arrangements to take off of work.   

Please do not increase the cost of the following items...I600, I600A, N565,  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N600, fingerprinting...adoption is expensive enough.  Please do not make it any more 
difficult! Please consider the burden you place on us as parents of adoptive 
children!!!!!!!!!! 

TV dinner still cooling? 
Check out "Tonight's Picks" on Yahoo! TV.