From: maria@cliburn.org [mailto:maria@cliburn.org]  
Sent: Monday, March 05, 2007 11:51 AM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: DHS No. USCIS-2006-0044 

Director Regulatory Management Division U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, 3rd Floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

Dear Director U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, 

On behalf of Van Cliburn Foundation, based in Fort Worth, Texas, 
and the audiences we serve, I submit these comments in response 
to the proposed rule published in 72 Fed. Reg. 4888-4915 
(February 1, 2007) to adjust the immigration and naturalization 
benefit application and petition fee schedule. 

The Cliburn Foundation produces a quadrennial international 
piano competition. We are the foremost piano competition in the 
United States, and one of the top five competitions in the 
world. One of the reasons we attract a wide range of 
international pianists is because we arrange three seasons of 
U.S. tours for the six winners of each competition. We do file 
I-129 for every foreign pianist we tour. 

I am strongly opposed to the proposed increase of the filing 
fees for nonimmigrant worker petitions. The proposed increase in 
the Form I-129 filing fees will be financially burdensome to my 
nonprofit performing arts organization. Before the USCIS 
contemplates any price increase, regular processing procedures 
must be improved. 

USCIS should not consider a fee increase without first improving 
regular processing procedures in the following ways: 

Reduce the maximum processing period for O and P petitions to 30 
days. Receipt notices from USCIS often indicate that processing 
periods will range anywhere between 30 and 120 days. This time 
span is simply too ambiguous and lengthy to accommodate booking 
and presenting foreign guest artists for performances with a 
fixed date. To engage foreign guest artists, and more freely 
facilitate international cultural exchange, the nonprofit 
performing arts community must be able to rely upon a 30-day 
maximum processing period. 

Improve the reliability and consistency in adjudication of O and 
P petitions. Current USCIS policies and practices result in 
inefficient processing of O and P visas - causing delay, 
expense, and unwarranted requests for further evidence. USCIS 
must implement uniform policies, procedures, and training for 
efficient processing of petitions. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Implement uniform policies to improve the traditional expedite 
service. The USCIS has made traditional expedite processing 
available at no additional fee to petitioners who experience an 
unforeseen emergency. Since implementing the Premium Process 
Service, the USCIS has allowed nonprofit organizations to remain 
eligible for the traditional expedite. However, the standards 
for granting expedited processing requests are unclear. The 
traditional expedite is not helpful unless there are clear, 
uniform policies appropriately followed and administered by 
USCIS. 

I am grateful for the opportunity to comment on this proposed 
fee increase. We oppose the proposed fee increase and urge the 
USCIS to demonstrably improve processing of regular petitions 
before burdening petitioners with any increase in processing 
fees. 

Thank you for your consideration. 

Sincerely, 
Maria Guralnik 
General Manager 
Van Cliburn Foundation 
2525 Ridgmar Blvd 
Suite 307 
Fort Worth, TX 76116 

 cc: 
Senator Kay Hutchison 
Representative Kay Granger 
Senator John Cornyn