-----Original Message----- 
From: mail.relay@mailmanager.net [mailto:mail.relay@mailmanager.net] On 
Behalf Of Bob Ericksen 
Sent: Friday, March 02, 2007 10:54 AM 
To: USCIS Comments 
Subject: DHS Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044 - USCIS Fee Increase Comment 

Bob Ericksen 
5301 Yale Ave. 
Westminster, CA 92683-2734 

March 2, 2007 

USCIS Comments 

Dear USCIS Comments: 

I am writing to you as director of the Dashew Center for International 
Students and Scholars at UCLA in opposition to the February 1, 2007, 
proposed rule "Adjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit 
Application and Petition Fee Schedule."  I work with the international 
student and scholar community at UCLA, numbering over 5000, having 
recently moved here from Cal State Fullerton.  The proposed fee 
increases are so exorbitant they will act as a disincentive for 
international students and scholars to study and work in the United 
States.  USCIS must reconsider the role of appropriated funds to meet 
the administrative needs of the agency.  I ask that fees be reduced to 
the actual cost of processing the application or petition.   

International students and scholars, and campus officials that employ 
them, file tens of thousands of petitions and applications with USCIS 
annually, including:  

   *The near-doubling of the I-765 fee for international students in F 
status to apply for work authorization for Optional Practical Training, 
from $180 to $340. 

   *The increases in the fees required in connection with change of 
status from F to H-1B, including the increase from $200 to $300 (a 50 
percent 
increase) in the I-539 application to change nonimmigrant status, and 
the increase from $190 to $320 (a 68 percent increase) in the I-129 
petition 

for nonimmigrant worker.  These fees are on top of the required data 
collection and fraud prevention fee, which is not part of the fee 
schedule. 

   *The huge increases in the fees required to adjust status from H-1B 
to legal permanent resident (green-card status), including:  the near-
tripling of the I-485 application fee for permanent residence, from 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$325 to $905; and the increase from $195 to $475 (143 percent) in the 
I-140 immigrant petition for alien worker.  (The proposed increase in 
the 
I-485 fee is partly offset by the fact that it is accompanied by the 
elimination of additional filing fees for work authorization and for 
permission to re-enter after traveling abroad.  However, the inclusion 
of those fees in the proposed new I-485 fee means that they would have 
to be paid even by those who do not expect to require the benefit.) 

The impact on our over 5000 international students and scholars is 
dramatic.  We've recently completed a needs assessment and survey of 
our 

students and scholars and over 1000 have responded.  Most troubling to 
me are the stories students and scholars tell of delays in getting 
visas, unpleasant experiences at our Embassies and Consulates abroad, 
and concern about growing costs for applications for benefits of their 
status.   
International students and scholars have taken this in a very personal 
way- as a further indication that the United States does not welcome 
them and their scholarly activity.  And, I know, you share with me an 
awareness of the value and contribution of these individuals to our 
campus, the State of California, and our nation. 

In our employment based visa area, the impact will be dramatic as well. 

We do a high volume of H-1b applications (over 100 annually) in our 
office in order to ensure that the best and brightest faculty and 
researchers are teaching and partnering with our California students 
and faculty.  With the situation for our departmental budgets, this 
places, in many cases, a large new burden on academic departments, 
already strained by limited budgets.  For the fees paid by applicants, 
this further hampers our ability to attract the best, as candidates are 
discouraged and burdened by the fees and, like the students, take this 
as a very personal indicator that the US does not value their presence 
and contribution.  Yet, these individuals are the ones who, in many 
cases, lead much of our cutting edge research in many fields, 
particularly in the STEM fields (science, technology, engineering and 
math) where we need to restore the US as a world leader in research and 
teaching activity.   

Apart from the direct impact of the excessive fees, they are contrary 
to 

clearly expressed U.S. policies.  The President, the Secretary of 
State, 

and indeed the Secretary of Homeland Security have expressed clearly 
and 

often the high value that the United States places on attracting 
international students and scholars to this country.  The United States 
reaps immeasurable benefits-for our foreign policy, our students'  
education, our economy, our competitiveness, and our public diplomacy-
from attracting the best and brightest minds and the next generation of 
world 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
leaders to America's educational institutions. 

Regrettably, the increased fees will reinforce the inefficiencies and 
dysfunctionalities USCIS inherited from INS when the Department of 
Homeland Security was created.  The solution to correcting the systemic 
problems that plague the agency is not to keep raising fees in a futile 
attempt to finance a twenty-first century agency.  Unfortunately, to 
meet its statutory requirements, USCIS is turning to its only steady 
source of funding, its filers and petitioners, to finance the required 
modernization of its systems.  While that is understandable, it is not 
acceptable as a 

matter of public policy, because it prices statutory benefits out of 
the 

reach of those who need them.   

The fact that USCIS operates on a fee-funded basis creates a built-in 
incentive to subsidize unnecessary work.  This creates an incentive to 
requiring USCIS approval for things; that way, you can charge a fee for 
processing the request, which provides necessary income to finance your 
broader operations.  The I-765 fee for Optional Practical Training is a 
classic example.  It used to be possible for school officials 
designated 

by the INS to approve OPT in accordance with agency regulations.  The 
benefits of reinstituting and expanding this process speak for 
themselves:  
 no application, no processing, no fee, one less task to be performed 
by 

the agency, more time to devote to what the agency really needs to do.   
There is no obvious public policy reason for USCIS to require agency 
approval for OPT today.  With the Student and Exchange Visitor 
Information System (SEVIS) now fully in place, it would be easy to 
devolve this responsibility back onto the schools.  Yet the cost of 
processing this unnecessary application process continues to drive up 
the fee.   

While I understand that USCIS is permitted by law to recover the full 
cost of its services through fees, and indeed has no other option so 
long as Congress is unwilling to appropriate funds for the operation of 
the agency, I ask that the fees be reduced to the actual cost of 
processing the application or petition.  Meanwhile, I ask Congress to 
step up to its responsibility for fixing the untenable situation that 
drives these fee increases. 

Thank you for the opportunity to comment.  My many colleagues at UCLA 
join me in appreciation for your willingness to consider these matters.  
We view it as an absolutely critical component of US competitiveness, 
foreign policy and security.  I'm more than pleased to be contacted if 
you have any concerns or questions. 

Sincerely, 

Bob Ericksen 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
310-825-1728 

Please use this link to SEE ME and view more information about me 
http://capwiz.com/nafsa/picturepages.tt?id=9641

This message has been verified by CapwizXC as authentic and sent by 
this 

individual.  Authentication ID: [czqlUPA6] 

Changed message text: 36.0%