Dear USCIS Regulatory Management Division: 

Church World Service, Immigration and Refugee Program (CWS/IRP) is a 
humanitarian, faith-based organization that works to welcome the stranger, 
relieve the weary and promote justice for the oppressed. This legacy is 
carried out through our member denominations and our refugee resettlement 
affiliates. 

As a supporter of this organization, and a seminarian member of the 
Christian Church (Disciples of Christ), I am concerned with the well-being 
of refugees and immigrants.  I am concerned about the recently proposed 
increases in USCIS service fees. Such increases will disrupt family unity, 
further victimize vulnerable populations, and be economically infeasible for 
low-income immigrants. While I agree that service quality should be improved 
to eliminate the backlog and remedy misplaced cases (up to 110,000 as 
estimated by the GAO), this burden should not be borne solely by immigrants 
who are already struggling to cover agency payments. 

Division of Families 

I am especially disappointed with the burden that the proposed increases 
would place on families. Families are the backbone of our society. Our 
immigration policies should never prevent a mother from being with her 
children, or a husband from joining his wife. The integrity of families 
should not be sacrificed for business convenience. I oppose all fee 
increases that would jeopardize family reunification, noting particularly 
I-129F, I-130, I-600/A, and I-187. The I-817 application for family unity 
benefits would increase by 120 percent and the applications for a relative 
and fiancé would increase by 87 percent ($190 to $355) and 156 percent (170 
to 455) respectively. 

Under this new fee structure, an individual earning minimum wage would have 
to save an entire month¹s pay in order to file an adjustment of status 
application. A family living slightly above poverty level would have to pay 
almost 8 percent of their total income in immigration fees. Parents should 
not have to choose which child can apply for citizenship versus another. 

Abandonment of Vulnerable Populations 

I commend USCIS for eliminating fees for certain interim benefits and 
initial applications for T-visas (I-914) and VAWA qualifying individuals. 
However, these vulnerable populations would still suffer from the proposed 
changes. Victims of humantrafficking and gender-based violence are often in 
desperate financial situations. Should these increases take effect, many 
could not afford to adjust their status, apply for work permits, or reunify 
their families, and could face deportation or elongated detention. 

Rather than enacting these fee increases, USCIS should work with Congress to 
create an alternative and permanent funding stream for immigration services. 
No law prohibits USCIS from diversifying its revenue through congressional 
appropriations, which has been accomplished in the past. Officials should 
also take into account various alternatives to detention and deportation 
that would prove more cost effective and less harmful to families and 
communities in the United States. 

Economic Infeasibility 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Many of the proposed fee increases are excessive, unrealistic, and do not 
reflect immigrants¹ diverse economic situations. As Congress considers 
comprehensive immigration reform, we advocate against these fee increases 
which would discourage individuals from residing legally in this country. 
The justification by USCIS officials that this is a ³business decision² does 
not coincide with the nature of government services, which lack the 
price-control mechanisms present in competitive markets. 

The proposed changes would increase the fee to adjust from temporary to 
permanent residency by 661 percent (from $180 to $1,370). The fee for a 
naturalization application, which has already increased by 400 percent under 
the Bush Administration, would increase again by 80 percent (from $330 to 
$595). Such large marginal increases are unprecedented, unnecessary and 
detrimental to the pursuit of the American dream. Immigrants paying these 
fees are law abiding individuals who pay taxes, contribute to their 
communities, speak English and know American history. We all benefit from 
increases in legal immigration and citizenship---economically and 
culturally. Immigrants should be encouraged, not hindered from applying for 
legal status. 

The United States should provide refuge and opportunity  welcoming ³the 
tired, the poor, the huddled masses yearning to breathe free.² In the name 
of families, vulnerable populations and those seeking a better life, please 
do not enact the proposed USCIS fee increases. 

Sincerely, 

Andrew Raker 
1917 Adelicia St. 
Nashville, TN  37212