From: mail.relay@mailmanager.net [mailto:mail.relay@mailmanager.net] On Behalf Of Sean 
Sanford 
Sent: Thursday, March 29, 2007 9:40 PM 
To: Emilio Gonzalez 
Subject: Don't raise the cost of citizenship! Docket# USCIS-2006-0044 

Sean Sanford 
2518 Alkire Street 
Golden, CO 80401-2126 

March 29, 2007 

Emilio Gonzalez 
USCIS Director 

Dear Emilio Gonzalez: 

Dear President Bush, Senators Allard and Salazar, and Others To Whom It 
May Concern: 

I hope that you are well today.  I know that you are very busy, so I 
appreciate your taking the time to read and consider my thoughts on an 
issue important to many in our country. 

I implore you, please, do not allow the U.S. Citizen and Immigration 
Services to implement its planned policy, to drastically increase costs 
and fees to those applying for citizenship.  I find it surprising and 
somewhat questionable that aspiring citizens themselves are charged for 
applying in the first place, and inexcusable for the burden to be 
increased on them in this regard. 

Immigrants, especially aspiring citizens, should be treated fairly and in 
fact as equally as possible by the government and under the law.  
Attaining citizenship should not be made harder, especially financially.  
If anything, the path to citizenship should be streamlined and opened more 
broadly and equitably to many thousands of decent, hard-working, and above 
all human individuals and families seeking a better life and participation 
in the civic life of the United States.  In the long term, facilitating 
the path to legal immigration and citizenship is ultimately just and will 
only further benefit and enrich all of us as denizens, regardless of our 
being immigrants or native-born, citizens or foreign nationals, even legal 
or illegal. 

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services plans to raise the costs of 
applying for American citizenship beyond the reach of many recent 
immigrants. 

During the past 12 years, the application costs have risen 400 percent. 
USCIS has proposed raising the cost of a green card from $325 to $905, a 
citizenship application from $330 to $595 and fingerprinting from $70 to 
$80. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
USCIS is one of the few government agencies that operates primarily on 
user fees, yet it plans to put an additional burden on people already 
working as hard as possible to become lawful U.S. citizens. Naturalization 
for a family of four would rise to $2,430. 

Congress should appropriate the funds necessary to allow thousands of 
hard-working immigrants to gain citizenship at a cost they can afford and 
USCIS should absolutely not enact these dramatic increases. 

Please give full consideration to these facts, and to the moral principles 
implied in facilitating the path to legal immigration and citizenship for 
thousands, rather than imposing further burdens on them.  Thank you very 
much for your time and consideration. 

Sincerely, 

Sean Sanford 

This message has been verified by CapwizXC as authentic and sent by this 
individual.  Authentication ID: [ktqxKRQ5]