April 2, 2007 

Director 
Regulatory Management Division 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security  
111 Massachusetts Avenue NW, 3rd Floor 
Washington, DC  20529 

RE:  DHS Docket No. USCIS-2206-0044 

Adjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit  
Application and Petition Fee Schedule   
Federal Register 72:21, February 1, 2007, p. 4888ff 

Ladies and Gentlemen: 

This letter provides comments on the above referenced proposed rule on behalf of the 

National Council of Agricultural Employers.   

Summary of Comments 

This rulemaking proposes an increase in the fee for adjudication of Form I-129 from $190 
to $320, a 68.4 percent increase.  The USCIS establishes a single, uniform fee for each form and 
petition which it adjudicates.  However, the uses for Form I-129 are very varied, and involve 
vastly different levels of complexity.  Almost all Form I-129 petitions for new admissions of H-
2A aliens are multiple unnamed beneficiary petitions which are extremely simple and involve very 
little adjudication time.  Most of the cost to adjudicate Form I-129 results from the activity of 
“making determinations”, and varies greatly among applications of Form I-129.  By allocating 
costs uniformly across all applications of Form I-129, H-2A employers are compelled to subsidize 
the other, more complicated applications of this form.  I-129 petitions for H-2A workers are filed 
by small agricultural employers with limited resources.  We believe it is unfair to require these 
employers to share the cost of complicated I-129 adjudications filed by large businesses for named 
beneficiaries.  A separate, lower fee should be charged for Form I-129 when it is filed for multiple 
unnamed H-2A beneficiaries that reflects the substantially lower cost of adjudicating these 
petitions. 

Background 

The Department of Homeland Security (hereafter “DHS”) is required by law to charge fees 

for the provision of immigration benefits that cover the cost of providing those benefits. The  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
USCIS Regulatory Management Division 
April 2, 2007 
NCAE Comments – Page 2 

DHS is required to conduct periodic audits to determine the cost of providing each benefit for the 
purpose of adjusting fees to cover costs.  The present rulemaking results from such an audit. 

The methodology for fee-setting explained in the Federal Register notice analyzed costs 
and set a fee for each specific DHS form, but did not include an analysis of the costs associated 
with different uses of specific forms.  In most cases, DHS forms have only one specific use, and 
all cases are of rather uniform complexity within a form category.  However, the Form I-129 
Petition for Nonimmigrant Worker is the exception to this general rule.  Form I-129 is used to 
petition for all of the following categories of non-immigrant workers:  H-1B, H-2A, H-2B, H-3, L-
1, O-1, O-2, P-1, P-1S, P-2, P-2S, P-3, P-3S, Q-1 and for extensions of stay or changes of status 
for E-1, E-2, H-1B1s, TNs, R-1 and Free Trade Nonimmigrant workers.  As explained in more 
detail below, these cases vary greatly in their complexity, and in the time required to adjudicate 
them.  

Interest of the National Council of Agricultural Employers in the Proposed Rule 

The National Council of Agricultural Employers (hereafter “NCAE”) represents 

agricultural employers and agricultural employer associations in the United States.  NCAE’s 
members employ and pay approximately 75 percent of all of the agricultural labor in the United 
States. 

It is well documented that the hired agricultural work force in the United States is 
predominately foreign born, and at the current time is predominately fraudulently documented.  
[See, for example, U.S. Department of Labor Office of the Assistant Secretary for Policy, Office 
of Programmatic Policy, Research Report No. 9 A Demographic and Employment Profile of 
United States Farm Workers, March 2005.]  However, with the national and DHS priorities on 
immigration control and border security, agricultural employers are having to resort in increasing 
numbers to the H-2A temporary worker program to obtain an assured supply of legal labor.  In FY 
2006 more than 6500 agricultural employers received certification to employ H-2A aliens on 3895 
labor certification applications.  Unofficially, we understand that in FY 2007 H-2A applications 
are up about 20 percent over the corresponding period in FY 2006.  Even at the current rate, less 
than 2 percent of the hired agricultural work force are H-2A workers.  With more than 50 percent 
of the workforce known to be unauthorized (although working with fraudulent documents), the 
potential for a very large expansion in H-2A applications and petitions, even in the short term, is 
very possible. 

Each H-2A labor certification application requires the filing of at least one Form I-129 
petition.  Even at current low levels of H-2A usage, the proposed fee increase will impose an 
additional cost of more than $500,000 on agricultural employers, most of whom are small 
employers.  It is worth noting that in FY 2006 the 3985 H-2A applications were approved for a 
total of only 59,112 workers, or an average of 15 workers per application.  The DHS’s proposed  
fee increase will impose a significant economic burden on these small businesses, as well as the 
additional small agricultural businesses that will likely be forced into the program over the next 
few years. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
USCIS Regulatory Management Division 
April 2, 2007 
NCAE Comments – Page 3 

Analysis 

As noted in the background section of these comments, the uses of Form I-129 vary 
widely, and the complexity of the cases for which this form is used vary equally widely.  By 
regulation, H-2A petitions are the only category of petitions for which Form I-129 is used that can 
be filed for multiple unnamed beneficiaries, except in emergent circumstances.  Because the 
specific beneficiaries of H-2A petitions are almost never known until the aliens present themselves 
to the consulate to apply for visas, almost all H-2A petitions for new admissions of H-2A workers 
are multiple unnamed beneficiary petitions.  This circumstance is unique to H-2A petitions.   

In a multiple unnamed beneficiary H-2A petition, the issues requiring adjudication are 
extremely limited.  The adjudication process consists of comparing information on the petition 
with the corresponding information on the labor certification, which usually accompanies the 
petition, specifically the applicant’s name and address, and the number of workers and dates of 
employment requested.  In addition, the adjudicator must check a database to determine that the 
employer is not under debarment for previous program violations (something which must be done 
with all petitioners).  However there is little or nothing else to adjudicate.  In particular, there is no 
information about aliens that needs to be checked.  Furthermore, the determination as to whether 
the employment is agricultural, and is temporary or seasonal, has already been adjudicated by the 
U.S. Department of Labor and therefore requires little or no additional adjudication by the DHS 
analyst. 

This is in marked contrast to other I-129 petitions.  Most Form I-129 petitions involved 

named beneficiaries, and can, and often do, include many beneficiaries on the same petition.  Each 
named beneficiaries must be checked against security databases.  The credentials and 
qualifications of each beneficiary must be reviewed and evaluated against the requirements for the 
visa category.  Educational transcripts, publications, letters of recommendation, and other 
documents must be reviewed and evaluated.  It is worth noting that under the present fee structure, 
the same fee is applicable to adjudicating a petition for an alien seeking a national interest waiver, 
an alien of distinguished merit or ability or a Nobel laureate, and a petition for 100 named H-1B 
aliens, as for evaluating a petition for 10 unnamed apple pickers. 

Page 4908 of the DHS’s Federal Register notice presents a table of unit costs of processing 
activities for DHS applications and petitions.  The unit costs for the activities involved in I-129 
petitions are as follows: 

   $ 

Inform the public 
Intake   
Conduct IBIS check 
Review records 
Make determination 
Fraud prevention and detection 
Issue document  
Total 

48 
18 
10 
45 
          104 
19 
  0 
$        244 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
USCIS Regulatory Management Division 
April 2, 2007 
NCAE Comments – Page 4 

In this tabulation, “making determination” accounts for 43 percent of the total cost.  The IBIS 
check, reviewing records and making determination collectively account for 65 percent of total 
costs.  In an H-2A multiple unnamed beneficiary petition, there are no names to perform an IBIS 
check on, no records to review, and only limited, and uncomplicated issues to make a 
determination about (comparing data on the application with the corresponding data on the 
accompanying labor certification).  Therefore, we believe that the unit activity costs associated 
with an H-2A multiple unnamed beneficiary petition could be one half or less of those for a typical 
Form I-129 petition. 

Recommendation 

We strongly recommend that the DHS establish a separate fee for multiple unnamed 
beneficiary petitions for H-2A workers using form I-129, reflecting the limited scope of the 
adjudication activities related to such petitions.  We believe it is unfair, and has an adverse impact 
on small agricultural businesses, to make them essentially subsidize the petition adjudication costs 
of other I-129 filers, most of whom are large businesses presenting complicated cases.   

We recognize that H-2A petitions for extensions of stay and/or change of status do involve 

named beneficiaries and require most of the same steps in adjudication as other I-129 petitions.  
We have no objection to charging the same fee for such petitions as for other I-129 petitions. 

We appreciate the opportunity to comment on this rulemaking and your consideration of 

our views. 

Sincerely yours, 

Sharon M. Hughes  CAE 
Executive Vice President