Ingrid Mercer 
916 W. Franklin St. 
Richmond, VA 23284-9081 

March 8, 2007 

USCIS Comments 

Dear USCIS Comments: 

I am writing to you as an international educator in opposition to the 
February 1, 2007, proposed rule "Adjustment of the Immigration and 
Naturalization Benefit Application and Petition Fee Schedule."  The 
proposed fee increases are so exorbitant they will act as a disincentive 
for international students and scholars to study and work in the United 
States.  USCIS must reconsider the role of appropriated funds to meet the 
administrative needs of the agency.  I ask that fees be reduced to the 
actual cost of processing the application or petition.  

International students and scholars, and campus officials that employ 
them, file tens of thousands of petitions and applications with USCIS 
annually. For the fiscal year 2007 Virginia Commonwealth University (VCU) 
already has: 

•       at least 108 pending or approved Optional Practical Training 
applications. USCIS is proposing a near-doubling of the I-765 fee for 
international students in F status to apply for this work authorization, 
from $180 to $340. 

•       at least 35 pending or approved change of nonimmigrant status to F-1 
student. A proposed 50 percent increase in the fees required for the I-539 
applications to change nonimmigrant status take them from $200 to $300. 

•       approximately 45 pending or approved H-1B temporary worker petitions. 
Some of these include change of status applications for family members. 
There would be a 68 percent increase from $190 to $320 for the I-129 
petition for nonimmigrant worker.  These fees are on top of the required 
data collection and fraud prevention fee, which is not part of the fee 
schedule. 

•       Though VCU does not always pay filing fees for adjustments of status 
from H-1B to permanent residency (green-card status) we gain excellent 
international professors and research scholars through employment-based 
permanent residency petitions. Unfortunately, USCIS is proposing huge 
increases in the fees required to adjust status from H-1B to legal 
permanent resident, including:  the near-tripling of the I-485 application 
fee for permanent residence, from $325 to $905; and the increase from $195 
to $475 (143 percent) in the I-140 immigrant petition for alien worker.  

International students are usually top notch in their fields of study. 
Furthermore, they pay full out of state tuition, creating valuable income 
for our universities. The United States reaps immeasurable benefits—for 
our foreign policy, our students' education, our economy, our 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
competitiveness, and our public diplomacy—from attracting the best and 
brightest minds and the next generation of world leaders to America's 
educational institutions. 

Furthermore, we estimate that increased work authorization application 
fees will affect at least 800 of our international students in the next 
couple years. In addition to the already extremely complicated and 
intimidating visa application process, the application and benefit fee 
increases for F-1 students will no doubt further negatively impact our 
international student enrollment. 

Furthermore, many colleges and universities pay the USCIS fees for the 
green card process for the person being hired.  It is less common for the 
fees for the family members, such as spouse and children, to be paid for 
by the colleges or universities.  The increases in fees will have a severe 
impact on families.  

Regrettably, the increased fees will reinforce the inefficiencies and 
dysfunctionalities USCIS inherited from INS when the Department of 
Homeland Security was created.  The fact that USCIS operates on a 
fee-funded basis creates a built-in incentive to subsidize unnecessary 
work.  This creates an incentive to requiring USCIS approval for things; 
that way, you can charge a fee for processing the request, which provides 
necessary income to finance your broader operations.  

The I-765 fee for Optional Practical Training is a classic example.  In 
the past school officials designated by the INS could approve OPT in 
accordance with agency regulations.  The benefits of reinstituting and 
expanding this process speak for themselves:  no application, no 
processing, no fee, one less task to be performed by the agency, more time 
to devote to what the agency really needs to do.  There is no obvious 
public policy reason for USCIS to require agency approval for OPT today.  
With the Student and Exchange Visitor Information System (SEVIS) now fully 
in place, it would be easy to devolve this responsibility back onto the 
schools.  Yet the cost of processing this unnecessary application process 
continues to drive up the fee.  

While I understand that USCIS is permitted by law to recover the full cost 
of its services through fees, and indeed has no other option so long as 
Congress is unwilling to appropriate funds for the operation of the 
agency, I ask that the fees be reduced to the actual cost of processing 
the application or petition.  Meanwhile, I ask Congress to step up to its 
responsibility for fixing the untenable situation that drives these fee 
increases. 

Thank you for the opportunity to comment. 

Sincerely, 

Ingrid Mercer 
804-828-0595 

This message has been verified by CapwizXC as authentic and sent by this 
individual.  Authentication ID: [76ureuw7] 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Changed message text: 65.6%