M a r   3 0  2 0 0 7  3:41PM 

R E F U G E E   &  I M M I G R R T I O N   C E N   6 0 5 7 3 1 2 0 5 9  

I 

i 

Social. Sa 
O f S o u t E x D ~  
*g&ming  w* F d f i e s  and c 

Refugee and Immigration  Cenl 

1609 W. llm St. 
Sioux Falls, SD 57104 

FAX COVER SHEET 

TO: fir  KiM  4. Sbm 
Fax:  - 

-y&C-5378  Pages: 

~ m m :  

Phone: 

Re: 

Message: 

Date: 

Fax Nt 

IF TOTAL PAGES NOT RECEIVED CALL:  (I 

M a r   3 0  2007 3:41PM 

R E F U G E E   &  I M M I G R R T I O N   C E N  

March 30,  2007 

Mr. Richard A.  Sloan Director 
Regulatory Management Division 
U.S.  Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Avenue,  N.W.,  3rd Floor 
Washington,  DC 20529 

Re: DHS Docket # USCIS-2006-0044 
Proposed rule--  Adjustment of the Immigration and 
Application and Petltlon Fee Schedule 

Benefit 

Dear Mr. Sloan: 

Lutheran Socal Sewices of South Dakota, Refugee & Immigration 
about the impact that the proposed fee Increases by the U.S. 
(USCIS)  will have on the refugees and asylees we serve.  The 
significant obstacle for many vulnerable migrants,  including 
into the United States by becoming permanent residents or 

In Section IX:  Proposed Fee Adjustments,  USCIS is proposing 
status application, representing an increase of $580 from the 
prevent many asylees from being able to apply for legal pe 
eligibility to naturalize as U.S. Citizens. Currently,  many asylees 
current $325 fee and will either wait to adjust, sometimes ye 
waiver.  LSS/SD  worked with a college student and asylee.  He 
and to pay for the adjustment filing fee.  Under this USUS pro 
fee undergoing a 178% increase, USCIS is proposing to cate 
waivers for all I485 adjustment of status applications, 
ยง209(a) who will continue to be automatically exempt from th 

In Section XI:  fee waivers of 
public charge is a ground of 
adjustment application is 
for permanent residence 
to offset the fee burden of "similar sewices provlded without 

according to 8 C.F.R. 
asylees adjusting 
consistent with the historical treatment of the 
circumstances that force asylum seekers to 
face during the early stages of his/her new 

is deeply concerned 

05 F1.x an 1-485 adjustment of 
of f325.  This proposed fee will 
en?!,  which will delay their 
fit-able trouble paying the 
9%;. eligible, or request a fee 
av&he  money to pay for college 
eve#,: not only is the application 
d the availability of fee 
ees &usting  status under INA 
the 1.31185 application fee 

, j 

applicants or other 

of their status and, 

LSS/SD  thanks USUS for continuing to exempt refugees adjusting th  r statut under INA ยง209(a)  from 
paying the 1-485 adjustment of status application fee.  However,  this  oes nCll alleviate the extraordinary 
burden that the proposed adjustment fees will impose upon asyiees.  erefo!ir, LSS/SO  recommends that 
USCIS reevaluate the fee structure, especially the extraordinary incre se, and/ institute a fee policy which 

i 

M a r   3 0  2 0 0 7  3:41PM 

R E F U G E E   &  I M M I G R R T I O N   C E N   6 0 5 7 3 1 2 0 5 9  

I 

is consistent, reasonable and affordable for asylees applying for a 
encourages USCIS to maintaln an accessible and clear fee war 
populations, such as asylees or trafficking v~cttms, who rece 
and/or are otherwise exempt from the public charge ground of i 
are in similar compelling circumstances as refugees,  they should 
fmm paying adjustment fees as &gees. 

Under the proposed fee,  in Section IX: Proposed Fee Adjustments, 
application would increase from $330 to $595,  which represents 
of four to naturalize,  they would have to have $2,380  in hand 
solely for the application fee. Such an expense would create 
for individuals who are eligible for naturalization and want to 
more fully in it as citizens. 

For a refugee or asylee who has fled their home country and 
Unlted States, the ability to naturalize as a U.S.  citizen is one 
can make toward becoming full participants rn Amencan 
women  have joined the US military. Sareral refugees 
have served in Iraq or are now serving in Iraq. 
process and the Bush administrabon has 
citizens is a priority. Furthermore, Article 
Refugees, as adopted by the 1967 UN 
is a party, mandates that states make 
reduce as far as possible the costs of 
individual applicant and the country 
the proposed fee increase for naturalization. 

tus. LSS/SD especially 

by  participating 

steps that Individual 

LSS/SD  recommends USCIS reconsider this extraordinarily large 
more realistic with what individuals and families,  who receive 
refugees or asylees,  may be able to afford when seeking to 
affordable flat fee or a fee  cap for a family to naturalize. 

se ar~f!i adopt a fee policy that is 

vir'ii~e of their status as 

~lvhould also include an 

impact on refugees and 
the disparity in adjudlmtlon 
funding stream that 
what USCIS collects in 
hardship upon 

indivtdwls are 

In conclusion, LSS/SD  urges USCIS to reconsider the propcsed 
asylees.  We  ask that USUS work with members of Congress 
costs versus revenues collected.  USCIS must create an 
will support its operations. Seeking appropriations from 
fees is the only 
individuals seeking to access immigration 
not marginalized but are integrated into 
and a common good for the greater 
Infrastructure, reducing backlogs 
checks are completed accurately 
be p
communities and with 
our country. 

 off onto USUS 

a

Thank you for hearing our concerns. 

Sin 

Do 
Director,  Refugee & Immigration Center 

I