MICROSOFT LCA  IMM. 

PAGE  01/21 

Your potential. Our passion? 

Microsoit c%rporatlon 
One Microsoft Way 
Redmond. WA 98052-6399 
United s i t e s  of America 

www.rnictosoftc0m 
Phone:  (425) 882-8080 
Fax: (425) 93-MSFPX (936-7329) 
~ a l e x  160520 Msft ~ & e  

TO: 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 

From: 

Lydia Tamez 

Company: 

US Citizenship 8 Immigration Services 

61dglRoom: 

812214 

CC: 

Phone Number: 

Phone Number:  425 706 0381 

Date &Time Sent:  3/30/2007 

Fax Number: 

8661466-5370 

NO. of Pages: 

(XI  Urgent  a For Review 

Please CommenWRsply 

Message ... 

DHS Docket No: USCIS-2006-0044 

CONFIDENTIALITY STATEMENT: The iMbmetlon in thls facsimile message Is legally privileged and confideptial 
information intended only for the use 
oftha addreseas listed on this cover sheet. If lhs reader afthls measaas Is notths Intended recipient, you an hereby notified that any dlsseminatlon, 
dlsnlbut on, or copying of tho telecopy Is strld y pmhlb tea  If you havirece~ved thls tacslrnlle In error, pease  mrnedlare y not fy cs by telephone at the 
number  ,$fed on tnts Qover sheel and ret~rn the origins, message to u9 at the aoove adores vla the Unltmd States Posta  S e ~ l c e  We al.1 relmoJrse 
any costs you Incur In nollfylng us and retutnlng the rnegsage to  JS  Thank yoL 

MICROSOFT LCA  IMM 

PAGE  02/21 

M croso(:  Cormrat On 
one M crosofi Way 
Rearnond  nA 98052.0399 

Te  425 882 8080 
F e r n 2 5  436 7328 
hl1p:ljwuu.m crnroll.com/ 

March 30,2007 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homcland Security 
1 11.  Massachusetts Avenue, NW, 3rd Floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

Re:  DHS Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044 

RIN NO. 161 5-AB53 
Comments to USCIS Proposed rulemaking 
(Adjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit Application and 
Petition Fee Schedule) 

Dear Director: 

Microsoft Corporation C"MicrosoA"), the world leader in software, services, and solutions that 
help people and businesses realize their full potential, is pleased to submit i t s  comments to the 
proposed rule published in the Februnry 1,2007 Federal Register by United States Citizenship 
and Immigration Setviccs (*"USCIS"), a unit of the Department of Homeland Security ('"DHS"). 

Microsoft produces software in over 40 languages and maintains operati,ons in more than SO 
countries. Our company employs approximately 57,000 individuals worldwide, including about 
36,000 U.S.  workers, primarily at jts corporate headquarters in ~ e d m o n d ,  Washington.  Since its 
found,ing in 1975, Microsoft has created thousands of jobs i,n the United States and American 
workers have filled most of these jobs.  Our success and growth over the years are attributable 
not only to the talents of Microsoft's U.S. workers, but also to the relatively small percentage of 
foreign employces sponsored for employment-based permanent residence.  In the coming fiscal 
year, we will continue our growth, with plans to hire m,ore than 3,500 employ~es in the United 
States. 

As you will see, the views expressed in this letter are broader than merely the parochial interest 
of a single corporation, and in many instances, oflm concerns about particular sections of the 

MICROSOFT LCA  IMM. 

PAGE  03/21 

proposed rule which probably will have little, if any, application to our company.  We 
nonetheless offer our views because Microsoff believes that, in fulflling its role as a responsible 
corporate citizen, the company is duty-bound to comment on proposed regulatory changes that 
would significantly affect the administration of our nation's immigration laws and access by 
many to our immigration system. 

At the outset, Microsoft commends DHS for taking steps to asswe that the USCIS will meet its 
public responsibilities by engaging in advance plamin,g, and in identifying sources of necessary 
funding.  An essential elemmt of the agency's public duties requires dramatic improvement in 
the processing of immigration applications and petitions and to provide better servjces to its 
customers.  We agree with the implicit premise that, while USCIS has made progress in certain 
important respects, it remains a very long way fiom reaching the level of efici,ency, md 
professionalism that the nation's  employers and individual users of the immigration system 
expect and deserve.  Microsoft therefore filly supports the premise that, in order to reach the 
l,evel of services envisioned in its name, USCIS needs substantial additional resources. 

Summary of Objections to the Proposed Rule 

Microsoft cannot, however, support this flawed proposed rule.  We h,ave signi,ficant concerns 
4 t h  several of the rule's  key proposals. In our view, the proposed mle: 

1.  Illegally imposes d l ,  rather than merely a fair share, of its general operational and 
development costs on individuals and entities seeking immigration benefits; 

2.  Reflects no statutory or regulatory mandate to secure funding from user fees but instcad 
a conscious agency decision to refiain from seeki,ng adequate appropriations from 
Congress for purely govemental functions that protect and benefit the entire nation; 
3.  Fails to withstand any careful cost-benefit analysis or provide any binding commi,tments 

to improve service; 

4.  Provides no factually supported or rational basis for stakeltolders to conclude that the 
exorbitant increases proposed will likely result in appreciably improved service levels; 

5 .   Masks the cost of the USCIS'  longstandig and regrettable mismanagement of 

operations, founded on unnecessary and unduly strict interpretations of eligibility 
criteria and processes required to confer requested immigration benefits; and 

6.  Reflects almost no consideration of how the agency's exertion of unilateral power by 
increasing fees unconscionably will harm, legitimate and deserving stakeholders who 
simply cannot afford to pay the proposed fee increases, or qualify undcr the vastly 
restricted eligibility standards for fee waivers. 

Introduction 

Among Microsoft's objections to the proposed rule, Fnst and foremost, is o w  firmly held belief 
that there is no reason in law, policy or sound management principles to warrant the skyrocketing 
increases in few.  Nowhere can we find justification to conclude that USCIS must or should 
impose virtually all of its operational and development costs on only one segment of the 
stakeholders in the immigration system, namely, the individuals and entities that submit petitions 

MICROSOFT LCA  IMM. 

PAGE  04/21 

and applications for immigration benefits.  Instead, as is common throughout executive agency 
practice, including the other immigration agencies, USCIS should devise a c u e h l  estimate of 
what these costs will be and then submit this estimate to Congress for an appropriation sufficient 
to cover all generalized costs of operations and of its purely governmental functions arid 
responsibilities. 

As confirmed in the March 27,2007 testimony of the USCIS Director, Emilio T. Gonzalez, to 
chc House Appropriations Committee, Subcommittee on Homeland Security, the agcncy's FY 
2008 budget oP%2.57 billion is 99% fee funded,  with only $30 million derived from 
appropriations.  This allocation is nothing more than a preferred choice by the Executive Branch, 
which has not asked Congress for an appropriation for these purposes.  History reveals a long 
and decisive record establishing that USCIS cannot properly fund its performance by passing on 
costs to customers, no matter how frequent or steep its fee increases.  The Administration should 
rnstead make a budget request to Congress. 

Second, there is strong reason to believe that the astronomical increases that have been proposed 
will not yield corresponding, or evm adequate, improvement$ for the benefit of customers.  DHS 
and the former Immigration and Naturalization Service ("INS")  have raised application fees 
repeatedly and significantly over t l ~ e  past ten years.  Unforlunately, stakeholders have not 
enjoyed a proportionate improverncnt in technology, customer service, and overall system 
effectiveness. Nowhere in the rule does USCIS pledge to payors any binding commitment that 
these dramatic fee increases will lead to better results.  Manv of the simificnnt new investments 
that this rule proposes to pay with the increased fee levels db not appear to be diratiy ticd to 
orovidine imoroved services to the customers of DHS. Instead, many of the functions that 
USCIS is proposing to fund -- particularly those targeted for additiodal security and anti-fraud 
personnel -- are properly placed in other (enforcement) components of DHS.  These components 
have appropriation-based funding, as they should, TO accomplish these very functions. 

- .

Compounding this problem, although the details are not clear from the proposed rule, is the 
disproportionate allocation of the fee increase earmarked to pay for ill-conceived background 
and security check processes that USCIS (out of synch with the other DHS agencies with 
immigration responsibilities) bas imposed on its petition and application processes.  To be sure, 
Microsoft fully supports the principle that our immigration system must protect national security. 
Yet today's USCIS sccuity-clearance policies are creating massive, m a n a g e d  backlogs in 
entirely legitimate situations. 

A 

r 

- 

Little in the proposed rule suggests any refined and critical analysis o'f which background checks 
should be performed; which petitions and applications should be subjected to clearance; what 
oolicies are in dace for addressing "hits":  and what aenonnel and other resources are 
appropriaiely devoted to canying out these policies and procedures,  It is indefensible that 
USCIS would hose the costs of these ill-advised and m,inimally helphl processes and policies 
on the users of thi immigration system - as well as the skyrocketing iostsbf litigating the 
exponentially rising number of challenges, and the attomey-ee awards when judges quite 
commonly and rightly agree that the background-check policies are unsustainable in individual 
cases. Clearly, the imposition on the agmcy's  individual stakeho1,ders of unwarranted and 

 
MICROSOFT LCA  IMM. 

PAGE  05/21 

excessive clearance costs does nothing but reward the agency for its own mismanagment and 
deficient policies. 

MicfasoR also believes that the magnitude of the fee increases proposed will have a negative 
impact on our irnmigation system, economy, and society.  Should these proposed fee increases 
go into effect, many legally eligible individuals and their families will be unable to afford the 
costs of applying for immigration benefits, including citizenship.  While we understand that 
additional funding from an appropriate source to provide immigration services is necessw, there 
is no evidence in the proposed rule that the agency has analyzed in any meaningful way the 
harms that will result from imposing all of the additional burden on individual immigrants and 
petitioners. 

Microsoft therefore urges DHS and the Administration to consider more carefully the wisdom of 
raising a significant portion of the necessary additional, resources through appropriations.  The 
ability of immigrants to obtain lawful immigration status and become more Eully integrated into 
our society is something that clearly benefits the country overall, well beyond the benefits that 
accrue to individual applicants and beneficiaries.  This is true where the aspiring immigrant is a 
Ph.D. whose work promises to bring massive intellectual resources to our knowledge-based 
economy, and it is also true where the aspiring immigrant is the hard-working,  law-abiding and 
tax-paying relative of a U.S. citizen. 

Finally, the adverse impact of the fee increases will be exacerbated by the agency's additional 
proposal strictly limiting the possibility of obtaining fee waivers to a few particular application 
types.  Under the proposed rule, many widely-used immigration applications would no longer be 
eligible for consideration for a fee waiver.  The agency's justification for this particular proposal 
is fundamentally flawed and we urge DHS to abandon this proposal. given the potential for 
serious harm it may cause for those individuals who will, be uaabl,e to apply for imrni,gration 
benefits without such a waiver. 

Microsoft supports the need of USCIS for additional funding adequate to bring it. up to an 
acceptable level of performance.  This funding, though, ox a major proportion of it, must come as 
an appropriation from Congress.  The inordinate increases proposed in the proposed rule are not 
an appropriate way to meet this need.  Microsoft's  objections are spelled out in more detail in the 
pages that follow. 

I. 

Because the Proposed Fee Increases Imposed on Users Are Wholly Dispropodtonate 
to the Benefits Conferred, DBS Should Seek Appropriations for All or a Major 
Portion of Required Additional Funding. 

Microsoff is extremely concerned with the magnitude of the :fee increases that USCIS has 
proposed.  The magnitude of the proposed fee increases is truly breathtaking.  On average DHS 
is proposing almost a doubling of fees beyond amounts that were last increased less than two 

ago.  More particularly, it would raise fees overall by approximately 86% above the levels 
that were set by the most recent increase.  Several widely used application forms, such as the I- 

MICROSOFT LCA  IMM. 

485 application to adjust status, will see far greater increases, many approximately tripling.  DHS 
is proposing to increase the fee for the 1-485 application form by  178%, from $325 to $905. 

There is not the slightest legal requirement that USCIS obtain all of its funding through 
application fees.  While Microsoft fully supports the agency's  need for additional fundin,g to 
mod,emite its systems and improve customer service, we urge DBS and the Administration to 
reconsider this proposed rulemaking and instead seek appropriations for the additional funds that 
the agency requires.  Appropriated funds would allow USCTS to limit the increase in application 
fees and could alleviate many of thc burdens chat the current proposal, i f  finalized, would 
impose.  A beztcr balance between appropriated and fee-based funding would also help the 
agency by providing it with a more reliable revenue stream and greater flexibility to respond to 
variations in application flows. 

Appropriations are fully justified because immigration and the efficient processing of 
immigration benefits provide many economic b e n c h  and otherwise contribute to the betterment 
of ouynation. The levh of applicaiion fees proposed in the proposed rule will negate a number o.E 
those benefits, even ignoring the substantial burdens imposed on individual applicants.  DHS 
should have conducted a th&ough  analysis of the costs A d  benefits of the suggested fee 
increases.  Microsoft is confident that once such an analysis is performed, the Administration 
will detemzine that there are far better alternatives, from a cost-benefit standpoint, to funding 
USCIS solely through application fees. 

A. 

USCIS and Its Customers Would Benefit From a More Balanced Mix of Fee- 
Generated and Appropriated Funding. 

We understand that a significant portion of the agency's  costs have historically been provided 
through application fees.  However, USCIS (as well as the former IhW) has historically received 
significant appropriations to support application processing as well.  Section 286(m) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C.  5 1356(m), states that fees ""for providing 
adjudication and naturalization services may be set at a level that will ensure recovery of the fill1 
costs of providing such services" (emphasis added).  The statutory language clearly provides 
DBS and zhc Administration with the necessarv flexibility to consider alternative funding, 
-. 
including the ovenvhelrni,ngly most common and proper:  additional appropriations from 
Congress.  USCIS has received substantial appropriati,ons kom Congress over the past several 

that were specifically targeted at redu&g  application processing backlogs and improving 
customer service.  For example, in FY 2005, Congress appropriated approximately $1 60 million 
toward the elimination of the immigration backlog.  Depcrrtment of  Homeland SecuriQ Act  of 
2005, W,R. 4567,108th Cong. (2004).  Likewise, in the six years preceding 2003, Congress 
appropriated some $430M specifically to address the backlog of immigration applications.  H.R. 
Rep. No.  108-010 (2003).  Unfortunately, this money wa$ only appropriated for specific projects. 
Because o f  the agency's unstable fee-based structure, much of this money went to covering 
budgetary shortfalls, rather than permanent investments in customer service improvements, and 
the purpose of the appropriation was thwarted.  There is every likelihood that, if the 
Administration does not adopt a long-term strategy to appropriate funds for managing USCIS 

MICROSOFT LCA IMM. 

performance, the pattern of "catch-up"  funding for USCIS principally through fees will produce 
continued USCIS underperformance. 

Funding USCIS operations only or primarily through user fees adversely impacts its perfoman,ce 
in a number of significant ways.  According to one internal. DHS report, under current funding 
structures, "USCTS  is unable to maximize efficiency and make USCIS a true world-class 
customer service provider."'  USCIS regularly faces budgd uncertainty because, as an 
overwhelmingly fee-funded agency, its funding stream is entirely depcnd,ent on the number of 
applications filed.  Additionally, while most of its revenues are variable, the vast majority of h e  
costs those fees mwt cover are fixed.  This can create significant budgetary problems for the 
agency should the number of applications filed vary significantly from its projections in either 
direction.  Should the number of applications filed fdl, below the agemy's projections, then it 
will need to make up the budgetary shortfall by other means.  In recent years DHS has covered 
these shortfalls by relying on fees Cmm  temporary programs, curtailing necessary spending, and 
by allocating premium processing fecs that, by law, were to be used for investments in 
infrastructure improvements to adjudications processes, to cover operating costs.2 

The Administration's decision to fund USCIS solely through user fees has exacerbated the 
budgetary uncertainties the agency has faced in recent years.  It has significantly restricted 
USCIS'  ability to plan for, develop, fund, and implement customer service improvements such as 
modernized JT systems, because USCIS has had to struggle to pay its operating costs.3 A base of 
annually appropriated funding in support of the filing fees that the agency collects would provide 
additional stability to the agency's  budget and markedly improve its ability to make long-term 
investmcnts in technology and personnel to improve its performance. 

hlicrosof? urges DHS and the Administration to reassess the dccision to fund USCIS solely 
through immigration application fees.  Instead it should consider seeking a balance of 

' See U.S. Department of Homeland Security, Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Ombudsman, 2006 Annual Report to Congress, (June 29,2006) p. iv. 
See 72 Fed. Reg. 4892.  The preamble to the PROPOSED RULE makes clear that the budget 
uncertainties the agency has faced due to shortfalls in fee-generated revenues are the direct cause 
for the agency's inability to improve its information technology systems: "investment in new 
technology and business process platforms to radically improve USCIS'  capabilities and service 
levels," 

' See  US. Citizenship and Immigration Services' Progress in Modernizing Information 

Technology, Office of Inspector Gcneral, Department of Homeland Security, p. 6 (Nov. 30, 
2006),  ("USCIS'  unique funding structwe poses major obstacles to transformation planning"); 
Annual Report 2006, Citizenship and Immigration Services Ombudsman, Deparfment of 
Homeland Security, p. 26 (June 29,2006)("The  manner in which USCIS currently obtains its 
funding affects every facet of USCIS operations, including the ability to: (1) implement new 
program and processing initiatives; (2) begin information technology and other modedzation 
efforts; and (3) plan for the future"). 

MICROSOFT LCA  IMM. 

PAGE  08/21 

appropriated and fee-generated funds.  This would ensure a more stable base of funding for the 
agency that is less tied to changes in the numbers of applications filed, providing it with greater 
budgetary certainty and the ability to plan and makE long-term investment decisions to improve 
performance and to adapt to sudden changes in application flows.  There me a number of 
alternatives for allocating additional appropriated funds.  The processing costs for a range of 
benefits, such as asylum applications and naturalizations for those in military service, are 
currently supported by therevenues from fee-paying app1,icants. These processes and services 
could instead be paid for with appropriate funds.  Appropriations could also be made to cover the 
agency's overhead costs.  ~ecuA&-bnsed background c&ck  policies should be pai,d for through 
appropriations.  h~ternativelj: while application fees would support the costs o f  processing and 
overhead, appropriated funds could be allocated for infrastructure investments and technology 
improvements.  This is clearly the trend of thinking in Congress.  Before this comment period 
evkn ended, a bill was introduced in the Senate to address the need for WSCIS to seek 
appropriations for certain costs associ,ated with adjudication and naturalization services.  That 
bill would state the Sense of Congress that - 

(I) the Secretary of Homeland Security should set fees 
under Section 286(m)(3) . . . at a level that ensures 
recovery only of  the direct cosls associated with the 
services described in such section 286(m)(3); and 

(2) Congress should appropriate to the Secretary of 
Homeland Sccurity such funds as may be necessary to 
cover the indirect costs associated with the services 
described in such section 286(m)(3). 

The Citizenship Promotion Act of.2007. S. 795,  110th Cong. 4 2(b) (emphasis added).  This 
approach recognizes what USCIS has regrettably read out of its statutory authority:  there are 
some expenses associated with the agency's adjudication and naturalization sewices that we - as 
the public - should all bear. Regardless of the particular alternative chosen, the agency's 
operations would be improved by increasing the stability of its budget. 

In spite of the large fee increases in this proposed rule, there i s  absolutely no reason for DHS to 
be confident that USCIS will. not suffer similar funding shortfalls once again in the near future. 
ne agency's variable fee revenues do not match well. with its large fixed costs,  Thc costs of 
processing immigration benefit applications have increased dramatically in recent years, 
particularly due to the enhanced security procedures that have been put into place.  The process 
for raising fees can be protracted, including fee studies, cost analysis, re ylatory development 
and internal review, and public comments.  In part based upon past history, there is thc clearest 
likelihood that DHS (if it continues to rely on fees only) will not be able regularly to complete 
fee studies and adjust fee levels in sufficient time to avoid future funding problems.  Prior to the 
fee study that was completed to support the proposed rule, tho last comprehensive fce study that 
the agency completed was almost ten years ago.  The use of appropriated funds, in addition to 
fees, would help minimize the disruptions to adjudications and application processing that might 
occur due lo delays in making fee changes in the future. 

MICROSOFT LCA  IMM. 

B. 

Immigration and an Efficient Adjudication System Provide Important Benefits to 
the General Public Beyond the Specific Benefits that Individual Applicants 
Receive. 

It is entirely appropriate for the Administration to seek appropriations to cover a portion of the 
costs of processing immigration applications,  Legal immigration and an efficient immigration 
system are public goods that benefit our economy and society in ways that are greater than the 
individual benefits that applicants and petitioners receive.  Immi,grant.s and visitors to our country 
bring their talent and hard work to our economy and enrich our community life.  Our economy 
beneMs because employers can obtain necessary foreign national employees and expand their 
businesses.  An efficient immigration system also increases our national security and provides 
important humanitarian benefits to individuals and families.  Microsoft in parti,cular generates 
huge economic and social benefits in significant part because of the irmovati,on and job growth 
that it generates. 

The reasons for properly funding the responsib1,e delivery of immigration services are powerful. 
When Microsoft files a petition or appli,cation, its adjudication is typically of importance not just 
to Microsoft, but to the innovation and job creation goals &the  whole county.  Delays interrupt 
those goals.  Prompt and eftlcient processing of immigration applications and petitions and 
access to our legal immigration system also can improve our national and border security. 
Access to fast and efficient immigration adjudication services c m  provide increased incentives to 
come to the United States through legal  channel^.^  Where individuals can afford to pay the 
application fees and can be assured of receiving a prompt decision on their applicati,on, they will 
be far less likely to try to enter the U.S. by improper means.  This will help to reduce the 
workload on our border security and interior enforcement agencies and allow them to better 
focus their resources on true criminal and security threats. 

Effective immigration adjudication processes can also serve promptly to screen applicants for 
criminal or naiional security concerns and help to prevent individuals who pose a threat from 
entering or remaining here.  Appropriations would allow significant improvements to be made to 
these procedures over the agency's current abiljties.  More efficient screening for security would 
allow the Government to identify and take action against those individuals who pose true 
security concerns, so that they are unable to remain at large while their applications are 
considered, and it would also allow the agency to determine more quickly when individuals do 
not actually pose any risk,  allowing their applications to be processed nonnally.  The screening 
processes now in place appear to delay a massive number of cases without offering any 
articulable basis for believing that our security has been strengthened. 

Our economy and society also benefit from immigration and an efficient immigration system. 
Immigrant entrepreneurs create jobs and increase tax payments.  High-skilled workers and 

4 See Carafano, J.J. & Mayer, M., Better, Faster, Cheaper Border Securiw Requires Better 
Immigration Services, (Washington, DC, Heritage Foundation, Feb. 28,2007), p. 2. 

- 8 -  

MICROSOFT LCA  IMM. 

foreign-born students and researchers have led innovation in key sectors of our economy. 
Immigrant workers produce, and consume goods and services, creating jobs that would otherwise 
not have existed.  Immigration also serves important humanitarian purposes, such as unifying 
families.  The proposed application fees, by raising hiring costs and limiting many individuals' 
access to the immigration system will, in part, negate these important general benefits.  Thus it is 
in the country's interest to limit the application fee increases by appropriating funds to support 
USCIS'  operations. 

C. 

By Exceeding the Scope of its Authority under the Homeland Security Act, the 
USCIS Impermissibly Includes Costs in the Calculation Underlying the Proposed, 
Fee Increases That Must Be Borne Exclusively by the DHS Immigration 
Enforcement Agencies. 

Microsoft believes that the proposed rule reflects a fundamental mistake in the imposition on 
petitioners and applicants seeking immigration bcnefits of liability for the costs of enforcement 
of the immigration laws, particularly the huge amount of enforcement costs earmarked for the 
Fraud Detection and National Security ("FDNS')  Division.  The error turns on the inclusion by 
USCIS in the proposcd fee increases of the costs of law enforcement activities, costs which me 
only allocable to federal agencies expressly authorized to enforce the immigration statutes and 
regulations. 

OMB Circular A-25 prescribes permissible allocations by federal administrative agencies of 
"User Charges" (accessible at httn://www.whitehouse.~ov/omb/circdars/aO25IaO25.111:m1). 
relevant part, OMB Circular A-25, at 7 6 a., provides: 

In 

When a service (or privilege) provides special benefits to an identifiable 
recipient beyond those that accrue to the'gengeneral public, a charge will be 
imposed (to recover the full cost to the Federal Government for providing 
the special benefit, or the market price). 

As an example, 7 6 a. lists a "passport  [or] visa" among the services for which a recipient derives 
a "special benefit."  Clearly, then, immigration benefits accruing to petitioners and applicants are 
properly classi8,ed as "special bonefitfin  The inquiry then turns to the definition of the '%I1 
cost7' to the Federal Government to provide such special benefits.  OMB Circular A-25, at 7 6 d., 
provides the definition of "MI cost" as follows: 

"Full  cost" includes dl direct and indirect costs to any part of the Federal 
Government of providing a good, resource, or service. These costs 
include, but are not limited to, an appropriate share o f . .  . the casts of 
enforcemen& collection, research, establishment of standards, and 
regulation, including any required environmental impact statements. 

(Emphasis added.)  Under the Homeland Security Act of 2002 ("HSA"),  P.L.  107-296, Congress 
determined to transfer thc authority ofthe IImmigration and Naturalization Service from the 
Department of Justice to DHS and to divide the powers and h c t i o n s  of legacy INS so 

- 9 -  

MICROSOFT LCA  IMM. 

transfersed between the Director of USCTS and the Under Secretary for Border and 
Transportation Security ("BTS") which includes Immigration and Customs Enforcement ("ICE") 
and Customs and Border Protection ("CBP") as follows: 

DHS Official 

Director of USCIS 

Under-secretary of BTS' 

DWS Agency 

USCIS 

BTS 
(ICE & CBP) 

Operative Statutory 
Provision 

Scope of the 
Transfer 

HSA 9 451 

HSA 5 441. 

"[All1 functions performed 
under the following 
programs, 
and all personnel, assets, and 
liabilities pertaining to such 
programs, immediately 
before such transfer occurs: 

(1) The Border Patrol 
program. 
(2) The detention and 
removal program. 
(3) The intelligence program. 
(4)  The investigations 
program. 
(5) The inspections program. 

"[Tlhe  following functions, 
and all personnel, 
infrastructure, 
and funding provided to 
the Commissioner in 
support of such functions 
immediately before the 
effective date [of the HAS:] 

(1) Adjudications of 
immigrant visa petitions. 
(2) Adjudications of 
naturalization petitions. 
(3) Adjudications of asylum 
and refugee applications. 
(4) Adjudications 
performed at service 
centers. 
(5) All other adjudications 
performed by the 
Immigration 
and Naturalization Service 

pP 

This chart reflects the DHS structure set out initially in the BSA.  Though the ofice of 

Undersecretary of BTS technically no longer exists, that fact does not diminish thc distinctions 
between HSA $5 45 1 and 441 nor the arguments made herein. 

MICROSOFT LCA  IMM. 

PAGE  12/21 

In light of the clear division of statutory authority noted above, Microsoft believes that the cost 
of enforcement should not be included in the USCIS calculation of proposed fee increases.  We 
note in the preface to the proposed rule (72 Fed. Reg. at 4899) that ICE has established a 
"theshold" involving "large conspiracies" and "multi-party"  Frauds before suspected law 
violations are ""accepted for criminal investigation" and that, as a result, USCTS believes that it 
must instead use its FDNS division for frauds of lesser mamitude.  However. as ICE is the 
agency with the prime role in investigating fraud and ensuring integrity in the system, the fact 
that it has chosen not to reauest a~uronriations for these activities. while USCIS i s  seekina to 
fund them on a massive sche, raises questions about the level of strategic coordination be&ecn 
the two agencies, and about the utility and necessity of the particulm enforcement measures that 
USCIS has put into place. 

., 

- -  

A 

While this division of enforcement responsibilities is a DHS policy choice involving an exercise 
of power that appears to exceed the grant of authority in HSA 8 45 1, we believe that the 
imposition of such ultra-vires costs on petitioners and applicants is wholly unwarranted.  As 
noted, under OMB Circular A-25, at 7 7 6 a. and d., only an "appropriate share" of the 'kost of 
enforcement" may be imposed for the special benefit of a user of government services.  That ICE 
has apparently chbsen a policy to decline investigation o~crimina~immigratjon 
frauds below a 
certain threshold does not justify the imposition of the cost of emforcement on users o%USCIS 
adjudicative sewices. 

Equally improper is the imposition of the costs of USCIS'  extralegal immigration-enforcement 
activities on applicants and petitioners requesting immigration benefits. The legality of decisions 
by USCKS through the FDNS division to engage in immigration-enforcemmt activities beyond 
the p w i e w  of its solely adjudicative authority tmder HSA 8 45 1 can be left for another day and 
decided in a different forum.  In,sofar as the proposed rule is concerned, however, Mi,crosoft 
firmly believes that persons and entities requesting immigration benefits should not be required 
to pay for activities benefiting the general publ,ic "involving d,etecti,on, combat, and deterrence of 
immigration and naturalization benefit fraud." 72 Fed. Reg. at 4897. 

D.  DHS Has Not Conducted a Sufficient Analysis of the Costs, Benefits and, 
Foreseeable Consequences of Imposing the Costly Fees Proposed. 

It does not appear that DHS has performed appropriately the required analysis of the costs and 
benefits of issuing this regulation.  Nor does it appear that DHS has considered the potential 
costs and benefits of pursuing possiblc alternative funding sources.  This is unacceptable, given 
the impact of the additional costs that the proposed rule would impose.  Under Executive Order 
12866, a regulatory action is considered economically significant if it will have an annual effect 
on the economy of $1 00 million or more.  DBS bas appropriately labeled the proposed rule as 
economically significant, because it will impose over $500 million - under DHS's analysis - in 
annual additional costs for immigration applicants6 Under Executive Order 12866 and Office of 

section of thc preamble discussing Executive Order 12866 can be found at 72 Fed. Reg. 

"he 
4913 (Fcb. 1,2007). 

MICROSOFT LCA  IMM. 

PAGE  13/21 

Management and Budget Ci,rcular A-4,  federal agencies are required to perform a rigorous 
regulatory analysis, particularly where a regulation is deemed economically significant, of the 
costs and benefits of any proposed ru1,emaking. 

The Executive Order provides that federal agencies, when deciding whether and how to regulate, 
are required to "as~ess all costs and benefits of available regulatory alternatives, including ihe 
alternative of not regulating.  Costs and benefits shall be understood to include both quantifiable 
measures (to the fullest extent that these can be usefully estimated) and qualitative measures of 
costs and benefits that are difficult to quantify, but nevertheless essential to consider."  58 Fed. 
Reg. 5 1735 (October 4, 1 993).7  In choosing among alternative regulatory approaches, "agencies 
should select those approaches that maximize net benefits (including potential economic, 
environmental, public health and safety, and other advantages; distributive impacts; and equity), 
unless a statute requires another regulatory approach."  Id.  Such an analysis is required both to 
help agencjes in their decision making processes and also to provide the public with information 
regarding the effects of alternative actions. 

These requirements do not at all appear to have been met in the development of  the proposed 
rule.  Neither the preamble nor any infomation in the d,ocket for this rulemaking contains any 
cost'benefit analysis of the rule's  proposals.  The preamble states the agency's need for 
additional funding and argues that customer service will suffer if the proposed fee increases (and 
the investments that would be funded with those fees) do not become effective.  However, it does 
not contain an analysis of the costs and benefits should this rule go into effect, or of the costs and 
ben,efits of raising the application fees to the levels proposed.  Nor is there apparently even the 
slightest consideration of the costs and benefits of pursuing alternative approaches, such as 
seeking more limited fee increases that are supplemented by appropriated funds. 

DHS should not go forward with this rulemaking until it has considered more carefully thc 
burdens and benefits that its proposal will create and has provided the public a reasonable 
opportunity to review and comment on its analysis.  The decision to fund USCTS's operations 
solely through application fees, and the increases in the fee levels that DHS has proposed, will 
have significant adverse costs for both individual applicants and the general public.  USCIS will 
remain tied to the variable funding that has failed so clearly in the past, and the accompanying 
budgetary shortfalls that have hindered its ability to modernize itself in past years will continue. 

11. 

The Proposed Rule Fails to Demonstrate that the Fee Increases Will Result in 
Improved Customer Sewice. 

Microsoft strongly supports the agency's goals of enhancing security, improving its technology 
systems, and increasing customer service.  FIowever, this proposed rule provides entirely 
inadequate assurance to the public that the rate increases will lead to appropriate improvement in 
customer servicc for the agency's customers.  USCIS (and the former INS) has increased filing 
' Executive Order 12866 was recently amended.  The amendments, which did not affect the 
quoted passages, were published on January 23,2007.  See 72 Fed. Reg. 2763 (Jan. 23,2007). 

- 

MICROSOFT LCA  IMM. 

fees regularly over the past decade.  The increases have been substantial, particularly in recent 
years.  For example, in 1998 the cost to file an 1-130 relative petition was $1 10.  That increased 
to $130 in 2002, increased again in 2004 to $185, and was increased in 2005 to $190.  DHS is 
now proposing Zo  increase the fee to $355.  The N-400 application for naturalization has 
increased in cost from $225 in 1998 to $330 in 2005, and it would rise again just two years later 
to $595 under the current proposal.  The cost of filing an 1-485 application to adjust status would 
make one of the largest jumps under the proposed rule.  The new fee would now be $905, an 
increase of $580 from the current cost of $325.  In 1998 the fee for filing this application was 
$220.  Fees for virtually all other application forms will see similar increases under the proposed 
rule. 

In spite of the fee increases enacted over the past decade, the agency is still plagued with 
outdated technology and information systems and still provides inadequate customer service in 
many areas.  Backlogs and prolonged processing times for many benefits continue, particularly 
with regard to employment-based green card applications.  The agency's  security check 
procedures, particularly FBI name checks, are run inefficiently and continue to rcsult in  very 
serious adjudication delays in a substantial number of cases.'  The agency has failed to 
modernize its IT systems and continues to rely on paper-based files and adjudication processes 
rather than current t e c h ~ o l o ~ i e s . ~  The continued reliance on outdated, paper-based processes 
results in inefficient use of the agency's human and financial resources and results in higher 
processing costs. 

According to the p~oposed rule, DBS will use the additional revenue to cover its current 
budgetary shortfalls and make a number of additional investments at a cost of over $524 million 
per year.  Tl~ese will allow the agency to reduce processing times by 20%, according to the 
agency's  estimates, by the end of FY 2009.  There is no business analysis or any other basis to 
conclude that the additional investments that DHS has detailed in the proposed rule will allow 
the agency to accomplish this goal.  This stems from the instability of fee-based funding, as 
demonstrated by the agency7$ past inability to make improvements in spite of substantial fee 
increases. 

Out of the $524 million DHS is proposing to spend, $123.8 million would go to additional 
adjudications and support staff.  The agency is also planning to spend an additional $124.3 
million on information technology.  However, much of this additional I T  spending appears to be 
for maintenance of the agency's outdated legacy systems, rather than the development of 
modernized systems.  Most of the remaining investments will have, at best, a limited or indirect 
impact on improdng benefits processing and sewices for the agency's customers.  Over $1 13 
miilion in additional funds i s  targeted for overhead (including facility costs, new training 
programs, transferring records to the National Archives, etc.), limited programs such as the 

8 Annual Report 2006, Citizenship and m i g r a t i o n  Services Ombudsman, D~partment of 
Homeland Security, p. iii (Jwe 29,2006). 

Id. at 29-32. 

MICROSOFT LCA  IMM. 

Cuban Haitian Entrant Program, and such other support costs as additional attorneys and policy 
personnel.  Another $152 million of the additional Tee  revenue will be spent on security 
enhancements, including additional money for FBI security checks, additional Eraud 
investigators, and increased physical, security and internal audits.  While Microsoft fully stipports 
and endorses the need for effective procedures to ensurc our nation's  security, no case at d l  i s  
made why these security-related funds will result in service improvements.  We believe that a 
number of these security-related investments might be more appropriately made by other 
agencies that are statutorily charged with immigration enforcement and are funded through 
appropriations rather than by USCIS, which is charged by statute with providing immigration 
services. 

While the proposed rule provides same detail regarding the additional $524 m,illion in 
investments that DHS is proposing to fund with increased fee revenues, it does not adequately 
indicate how these investments, when taken as a whole, will allow the agency to accomplish its 
goals.  It al,so fails to provide any details regarding alternative investments that the agency m,ay 
have considered.  In addition, many ofthc investments the agency is proposing to make are not 
sufficiently tied to improvements in the agency's adjudication processes.  As a result, thcre is 
little rcason for the public to believe that the drama ti,^ fee increases in the DHS proposal will 
result in matching improvements i,n service. 

111. 

The Proposed Fee Increases Will Eliminate Access to Our Immigration System for 
Many Eligible Immigrant Families and Limit Their Integration into Our Society. 

The proposed fees, once effective, will simply be unaffordable for many deserving immigrants 
and their families.  Significant numbers of eligible immigrants and petitioners will be unable to 
access the immigration system and obtain the legal status or benefits to which they may be 
entitlcd.  This will not only cause significant hardships for affected individuals and their 
families; ultimately, it will harm our immigration system and our society overall. 

We believe many deserving immigrants are going to find it extremely difficult, if not impossible, 
to afford these fees.  The following example will illustrate this point.  Currently, a family of four 
with an income of 125%"  over thc poverty line (as assessed by the Department of Health and 
H m a n  Services)"  would make approximately $25,813 per year, or approximately $2,151 per 

'O  An income level of 125% above the current HHS poverty guidelines was chosen because this 
is the income level required for filing an. affidavit of support in connection with sponsoring a 
family member to immigrate to the United States.  This is necessary in order to dernonstratc that 
the sponsored family member will not be inadmissible as apublic charge under section 212(a)(4) 
of the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C.  $  1182(a)(4). An individual or household 
whose earnings are at or above this 125% level is legally eligible to sponsor family members as 
immigrants. 

" The poverty level guidelines for 2007 were published in the Federal Register on January 24, 
2007.  See 72 Fed. Reg. 3 147. 

MICROSOFT LCA  IMM. 

month, before taxes.  If such a family lived in a two-bedroom apartment in the Washington D.C. 
area, they would be faced with an average fair market rent as determined by the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development of $1,225 per month.  After factoring in taxes and other 
necessary expenscs such as food, transportation, and utilities, such a Emily would have little or 
no additional funds to pay these proposed application fees. 

Once thc proposed fees are in effect, if the head of this household wishcd to file the necessary 
applications to adjust the status of his or her spouse and two children, and if the two children 
were both over fourteen years old, he or she would be required to pay $4,020,'~ even before 
paying the additional expense to obtain the necessary medical examinations or paying for any 
legal help in completing and filing the applications.  Once these additional expenses are taken 
into account, the family will be required to pay approximately one-fifth of its gross annual 
income to file these applications.  The proposed fees will simply be unaffordable for many 
families in this situation.  Many households will face the unfortunate position of deciding 
whether or not to file for immigration benefits for some or all members of the family.  As a 
result, many eligible individuals and families will be unable to obtain lawhl permanent 
rcsidence, and in some cases this may mean that they are unable to legalize their status. 

Many eligible families will also be precluded from obtaining the important benefits of 
citizenship should this rule become effective.  Under the proposed rule, the fee for filing 
naturalization applications will also be sharply increased.  For example, should the hypotheti,cal 
family of four wish to apply for naturalization, they would need to pay an additional sum of 
$2,700, or over ten percent of the family's  gross annual income, sim  ly to cover the costs of 
filing the applications and to pay for h e  necessary biometric checks%  The family might also 
have to pay significant costs for language and U.S. history classes in preparation for the 
naturalization process.  Regardless of the particular benefit being sought, the fee increases that 
DRS is proposing in this rule will unquestionably limit access our immigration system.  Our 
hypothetica1 example, a family of four earning 125% above the poverty guidelines, i,s quite a 
common one.  Approximately one-half of the millions of immigrants who are eligible for 
naturalization have incomes under 200% of the poverty guidelines.'4  There is no reason to 
believe that the income statisti,cs for individuals in the United States applying for other benefits 
arc any different.  Many individuals and families at these income levels will not have the money 
available to pay the filing costs to apply for immigration benefits, and millions of current lawful 
permanent residents may be unable to seek citizenship, simply because it will become 
unaffordable. 

' I  This cost would include the cost of three 1-485 applications at $905 each, three 1-130 petitions 
at $355 each, and three separate biometric fees at $80 each. 

l 3  The $2,700 cost would consist of four N-400 applications at $595 each and four biometric fees 
at $80 each. 

l 4  Fix, Passel, & Sucher, Trends En  Naturalization, (Washington, DC: Urban Institute, September 
2003); Immigration Fee Increases In Context, (Washington, DC; Migration Policy Institute, Feb. 
2007) p.1. 

MICROSOFT LCA  IMM. 

Families and individuals in this situation will encounter significant additional, burdens. 
Individuals who are unable to pay the cost of inflated filing fees may fall out of legal 
immigration status and may lose their legal authorization to work in the United States.  This also 
can be expected to adversely impact employers, who stand to lose valuable employees.  Aliens 
who are unable to legalize their status or obtain employmmt authorization are also more 
susceptible to exploitation by unscrupulous employers. 

Immigrants who cannot afford to pay the application fees to apply for naturalization will be 
unable to enjoy the important benefi,ts of citizenship, including the right to vote and hold office, 
the ability to sponsor family members for immigration, the ability to travel freely on a U.S. 
passport, and the increased access to employment and educational scl~olarships. 

Our economy and society will also suffer.  A significant percentage of the large number of 
individuals with low incomes (200% or less of the poverty guidelines level) who are eligible for 
naturalization will bc discouraged from applying because of the high application fees.I5 
Obtaining immigration benefits, particularly permanent benefits such as naturalization and 
adjustment of status, are important steps in the integration of recent immigrants into our overall 
society. 

Increased naturalization and integration bring significant benefits to the country.  Citizenship 
may make fo~eign nationals more dedicated to democratic principles, better informed about the 
Constitution, and more fully engaged in civic life.  Naturalization is an important affirmation of 
commitment to the country and its principles.  In order to naturalize, irnrnigrmts must learn a 
basic level of English and study our history."  The Administration has already recognized the 
value to our society of increased naturalization and integration.  Promoting assimilation and 
integration into our society is one of the five fundamental tenets of the President's plan for 
comprehensive immigration reform."  The fee levels that QHS is proposing will discourage 
many individuals from applying for n,aturalization and will be counterproductive to achieving the 
Adminisnation's  integration goals. 

IV.  DHS Should Not Limit the Possibility of Obtaining Fee Waivers in Individual. Cases 

At the Same Time the Agency Is Proposing to Increase Application Fees in Such a 
Dramatic Fashion. 

It seem highly inappropriate that DHS is proposing to restrict significantly the availability of fee 
waivers at the same time that it is proposing to increase dramatically the filing fees for virtually 

l5  Immigration Fee Increases In  Context, (Washington, DC; Migration Policy Institute, Feb. 
2007) p.1. 

l6  Id.; A More Perfect Union: A  National Citizenship Plan (Washington QC: The Catholic Legal 
Immigration Network, Inc., Jan 2007), p. 1. 
l 7  See www.whitehousc.~ov/infpc~di~mimation~ 

MICROSOFT LCA  IMM. 

all of its application and petition forms.  Ilistori,cally, under the regulations at 8 C.F.R. 4 
-  - -  
103.7fc),  as well as the various iterations of agency guidance issued by both the former INS and, 
US CIS;^^^ agency has had the flexibility to waive application or petition costs (for virtually all 
application types) for those individuals who were able to demonstrate that they were unable to 
afford the prescribed fee.  The agency's proposal to eliminate any possibility of fee waivers for a 
number of ddely  used application forms is an ill-advised shift from this historical practice. 
Eliminating thc possibility of fee waivcrs will only exacerbate thc problems that eligible 
immigrants and their families who cannot afford the proposed fees will face, should this rule 
become effective. 

The proposed amendments to 8 C.F.R.  3  103.7(c) would prohibit fee waivers for all but a short 
list or specific application types."  A number of widely-used forms are not included on this list, 
and thus applicants for those benefits wodd longer be eligible even for conideration of a fee 
waiver, regardless of their individual circumstances.  While the application types that would no 
longer qualify for the possibility of a fee waiver include many business-based petitions and 
applications, we are puzzled by DHS's decision to exclude several important family-based form 
types as well.  Included among the applications that USCIS would no longer consider for a 
waiver are Form 1-130 relative petitions, Form 1-360 petitions filed by widowers, and Form 1-485 
applications to adjust status to become a permanent resident. 

The justifications provided for this proposal are flawed, and the proposed change is entirely 
unnecessary to address any perceived problems with the current wai,ver process.  It appears from 
section XI of the preamble that DHS is proposing this change for two reasons.  The agency's  first 
reason is that, because it i s  a fee-funded agency, any fee waiver that it grants transfers the costs 
to all other fec-paying applicants.  The second, and this should be no surprise, is th,at the agency 
expects to receive a higher rate of fee waiver rcquests once the proposed fee increased become 
effective.  "To offset this potential,"  the preamble explains that DHS is amending the current 
regulations to limit the possibility of fee waivers where the "basic premise o f  a fee waiver is 
wholly or largely inconsistent with the status held or the benefit being sought."'9 

The agency provides several examples of situations in which DHS considers fee waivers to be 
inconsistent with the benefit being sought.  These include companies that can request a waiver 
when seeking to admit a foreign worker to whom they must pay appropriate wages; individuals 
who can apply for a fee waiver when seeking status based on a substantial investment; or an 
extension of stay, where such persons must demonstrate the ability to support tl~emselves during 
that stay without working; individuals who can seek a waiver who must demonstrate that they 
can support themselves; and those seeking to sponsor relatives who must commit to providing 

p~  p~ 

l B  Under the proposed rule, the only application forms that would still be eligible for 
consideration of a waiver would be Form 1-90, Form 1-751, Form 1-765, Form 1-817, Form N- 
300, Form N-336, Form N-400, Form 1-470, Form N-565, Form N-600, Form N-6OOF;m and 
F o ~  
l 9   See 72 Fed. Reg. 4912 (Feb. I,,  2007). 

I-290B. 

MICROSOFT LCA  IMM. 

necessary financial support to those relatives, so that they do not become a public charge.20 
However, the changes in this proposed rule are entirely unnecessary for ensuring that only 
deserving applicants receive fee waivers.  USCIS already has the authority, under the current 
regulations, to reject any fee waiver request in any case where it determines that the applicant 
has failed to demonstrate that he or she cannot afford the fees.  More importantly, the agency's 
und,&lying premise that fee waivers are automatically inappropriate in several of the examples 
cited, particularly those invo1,ving family-based immigration and sponsors hi,^, is simply 
incorrect. 

There is no automatic inconsistency between an individual applying for adjustment of status or 
seeking to sponsor a relative for admission to the United States and that particular applicant's 
need for a fee waiver.  This will be particularly true should the fee increases proposed in this 
rulemaking go into effect.  An applicant for adjustment of status, or a petitioner seeking to 
sponsor one or more relatives to immigrate to the U.S., may very well bc able to meet his or her 
financial obligations under the immigration laws but still be unable to pay, in one lump sum, the 
filing fees.  As discussed in section I, above, a substantial portion of the population who are 
eligible to apply for immigration benefits have incomes that are less than 200% of the poverty 
level.  Earlier, rn discussed a hypothetical head of a family of four who earned 125% over the 
current poverty guidelines.  At that income level his three immediate family members seeking to 
adjust status are legally eligible and cannot be considered inadmissible for economic reasons. 
The head of the household may bc fully able to support their needs on a daily basis.  However, 
he or she may very well be unable to afford to pay over 94,000 in a single lump sum, as would 
be required (if the proposed fees becomc effective), to filc the application forms.  As in countless 
other similar situations. there is no inconsistency in considering a fee waiver with the benefit 
being sought.  However, the proposed mle would eliminate the agency's possibj,lity of 
considering a fee waiver in iust such cases, and, therefore, would only exacerbate the problems 
of individuals and families being cut off from our legal immigration processes. 

- 

In addition, should the agency's proposal to sharply limit fee waivers become effective, it will 
creatc a strange i,nconsistcncy between the handling of fee waivers by DHS and the handli,ng of 
waiver requests for many of the very same application types by the Department of Justice (DOJ). 
Immigration Judges, who are within DOJ, adjudicate many of the same applications for 
individuals in immigration court who have been placed in removal proceedings.  See 8 C.F.R. 5 
1003.24(d).  Should the DHS proposal go into effect, an in,dividual who is in the United States 
legally who cannot afford. to pay the $915 necessary to file an application for adjustment uf 
status will be unable to obtain a waiver of the fee from USCIS.  However, an ali,en whom the 
Government is expending resources to deport in removal proceedings before an Immigration 
Judge will still be able to apply for fee waiver for h e  very same application.  There does not 
appear to be any reasonable basis for allowing an illegal alien to be considered for a waiver but 
preclude even the possibility of a waiver for individuals who are here 1,egally. As noted above, 
this is not a situation that Microsoft itself would regularly confront.  As an entity that thrives, 

20 Id. 

MICROSOFT LCA  IMM. 

however, in arrangements in which it is imperative that the immigration system can be mad,e to 
work, Microsoft feels it is important to comment on this section. 

The proposed rule also fails to demonstrate that there is any real necessity for making this 
change.  No evidence is provided that fee waivers prove overly burdensome for the aggccy under 
the current regulations, for example, nor is there any evidence provided that the fees that are 
waived add excessively to the costs for other applicants who can afford to pay the fees.  No data 
has been provided regarding the number of fee waiver requests that the agency currently 
processes, the number of re~uests that are cumntlv granted or denied, and thc number of fee 
fees go into effect. 
k v e r  appli,cations that the ggency expects to recdiG should the 
Thus, insufficient information has been provided to allow the public to rcflect carefdly on this 
proposal and assess its necessity.   ow ever, it is our understanding that the number of fee waiver 
requests that the agency receives is a very tiny percentage of the total number of applications 
received.  At an oversight hearing before the House Immigration Subcommittee on February 14, 
2007, USCIS officials indicated that last year the agency received approximately 56,000 fee 
waiver requests, and that this represented only one-tenth of one percent of the overall application, 
volume.  Just as striking, those same officials testified that USCIS currently pants 
approximately 85% of the fee waivcr requests that it receives?' 

Microsoft strongly urges DHS to reconsider its proposal to limit fee waivcrs in this rulemaking. 
The fact that far less than one percent of the applicants who currently file appl,ications request 
waivers, combined with the fact that USCIS grants the vast majority of those requests that are 
made, clearly indicates that there is no current systemic problem with abuse of the fee waiver 
process that requires correction.  Th,e agency already has the authority to deny any waiver 
request that fails to demonstrate an inability to pay.  Additionally, the agency's  underlying 
premise, that certain application types or ben,efits are automatically inconsistent with even the 
possibility of a fee waiver i s  fundamentally flawed, particularly with regard to farnily-based 
applications.  While many family sponsors may be able to fully support the economic needs of 
the relatives they sponsor, they may not have the money to pay the large upfront fees that will be 
required to file a number of applications should the increased fees go into effect.  The proposal to 
eliminate fee waivers thus is based upon faulty premises, is targeted at a problem that doesn't 
demonstrably exist, and will cause extreme hardship in many i,ndividu,al cases where deserving 
applicants do not have the funds to file immigration applications and cnn no longer be considered 
for a waiver. 

*' Subcommittee on l&igration,  Citizmship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law 
Oversight Hearing on The Proposed Immigration Fee lacrease, February 14,2007.  A video 
webcast of the hearing is available at b~:l/iudici~.ho~~e.aov/oversipht.asux7ID'270. 

- 19- 

MICROSOFT LCA  IMM. 

Conclusion 

A 

- 

Microsoft thanks DHS for the o~poflunity to comment on this 'mouosed regulation.  Microsoft 
strongly supports USCIS'  goal iiimprov; 
customer service, and it endorsis the agency's  need 
for additional funding to accomplish that goal.  However, DHS should seek those fund,s at least 
partly through additional appropriations from Congress rather than through higher application 
fees.  The proposed rule would put in place a fee regime that is excessive, not requited by law or 
facts, and detrimental to the goal of avoiding delays to key processing in systems that USCIS 
(and Microsoft) considers indispensable.  The fee amounts in the proposed rulemaking me 
entirely out of line with the benefits processed for a "'regular user" company like Microsoff. It is 
critical. to remember that Microsoft is a major employcr for U.S. workers, and will continue to be 
so as long as conditions make that possible.  The more these fees increase, the more that affects 
the busincss calculation that a company must make about where it should hire globd1,y. U.S. 
policy should strive always to make sure the answer to that is, "the United States."  The proposed 
rule should be withdrawn so that DHS can perfom an analysis of all of the relevant costs and 
benefits and seek additional appropriations. 

Sincerely, 

I 

Lydia Tamez 
Associate General Counsel 
Legal and Corporate Affairs 
Microsoft Corporation 

Cc:  By facsimile (866-466-5370) 

Director 
Regulatory Management Division 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Departn~ent of Homeland Security 
11 1 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, 3'd Floor 
Washington, DC 20529