From: mail.relay@mailmanager.net [mailto:mail.relay@mailmanager.net] On Behalf Of Ruth 
Meas 
Sent: Wednesday, March 28, 2007 4:49 PM 
To: OS Comments 
Subject: DHS Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044 

Ruth Meas 
5921 Lawndale Street 
Philadelphia, PA 19120-1209 

March 28, 2007 

OS Comments 

Dear OS Comments: 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
US Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Ave. NW, 3rd floor 
Washington DC 20529. 

RE:  DHS Docket # USCIS-2006-0044 

Proposed rule — Adjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit 
Application and Petition Fee Schedule 

Ruth Meas is deeply concerned about the proposed USCIS fee increase 
referenced above. 

I am a second generation Cambodian-American. My parents came here from the 
refugee camp in Thailand due to the war and bloodshed in their home 
country of Cambodia. 

I am deeply troubled by the sheer size and scope of the fee increase. 
USCIS plans to increase citizenship fees from $400 ($330 application fee 
plus $70 fingerprinting fee) to $675 ($595 application fee plus $80 
fingerprinting fee), an increase of 69 percent.  It would also raise fees 
for 37 other immigration and naturalization petitions and applications at 
an average increase of 66 percent.  Furthermore, it appears that the 
increase will take place at once rather than being spread out over a 
period of time. 

Rapid fee hikes of such magnitude will have a disproportionate and 
detrimental impact on the Asian American community. As the following 
figures reflect, Asian Americans constitute a significant portion of 
USCIS's customer base. 

-39% of people who naturalized in 2005 were born in Asia. 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Five of the top ten countries of birth for new U.S. citizens are Asian 
(Philippines, India, Vietnam, People's Republic of China, and Korea).  
-36% of people who became lawful permanent residents (LPRs) in 2005 were 
born in Asia.  -Five of the top ten countries of birth for new LPRs are 
Asian (India, China, Philippines, Vietnam, and Korea).  -Significant 
numbers of asylees and refugees came from Asian countries such as Laos (16 
percent of refugees admitted in 2005) and China (21 percent of asylum 
granted in 2005). 

To be educated in Cambodia during the war meant certain death. My mother's 
family could not afford to put her in school to even learn how to read or 
write Khmer. So, when she came here it's been very difficult for her to 
read and write English. She's been trying for years to get her citzenship, 
studying and learning basic words and phrases. I don't think it's fair 
that she should have to pay such a high rate to become a part of the 
United tetes of America. She pays taxes to the American governement but 
yet she does not get treated like an American citizen. She's not an 
American citizen but she wants to be, please don't make it harder for her. 

The massive and abrupt fee increase proposed by USCIS will delay or 
prevent Asian Americans from becoming U.S. citizens, reuniting with their 
families, contributing their knowledge and skills to our economy, and 
settling into our society after having escaped persecution. 

-A family of four LPRs who want to apply for U.S. citizenship at the same 
time will now have to have $2,700 at their disposal in order to achieve 
their American dream together. 

-A family of four which has been granted asylum in the U.S. and is 
applying for permanent residence will now need $3,620 in hand in order to 
apply for permanent residence. 

-Furthermore, asylees applying for permanent residence will be ineligible 
to apply for fee waivers, no matter how dire their financial situation may 
be, because USCIS intends to categorically eliminate fee waivers for I-485 
applications for adjustment as a part of the fee increase. 

-The proposal would also prohibit U.S. citizens and LPRs from requesting 
fee waivers on I-130 relative petitions on the grounds that the 
petitioners must file affidavits of support to show that they can support 
their beneficiaries should they be unable to do so themselves.  

With the lack of American education many first generation Cambodians are 
having a hard time getting a job that pays them enough for basic bills 
like rent/ mortgage, utilities, food, etc. and raising the cost is almost 
like America's way of saying we don't care how hard you work and pay us. 
We just keep wanting more money If you don;t have the money tough luck, 
welcome to America! It's a horrible thing to do to people who really want 
to be a part of the United States and be proud to be an American citizen. 

The fee hike and the blanket ban on fee waivers on certain applications 
and petitions would be particularly burdensome to the roughly 12 percent 
of the Asian American community which lives below the poverty level. 

Given the speed, scope and scale of the proposed fee increase, we believe 
that USCIS customers must receive faster, greater, and more concrete 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
improvements in processing times and customer service. The fee increase 
proposal itself does not appear to set forth any concrete targets for 
improvement in these areas. 

Finally, we believe that certain improvements which the USCIS wants to 
finance through the fee increase would be better addressed through the 
normal budget and appropriations process. For instance, while we support 
USCIS's efforts to improve its fraud detection capacity and to modernize 
its business and technological infrastructure, we do not believe that 
immigrants and their families should bear the sole burden for these 
efforts. 

In conclusion, we urge USCIS to reconsider the proposed fee increase.  We 
hope that the agency will work with immigrant communities, and with 
Congress, to develop a functioning, effective immigration system that will 
benefit our country. 

Sincerely, 

Ruth Meas