From: Levent Ozbilek [mailto:LOzbilek@gatewaybank.com]  
Sent: Thursday, February 01, 2007 10:41 AM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: USCIS-2006-0044 

I would not be against the Fee Increase (Adjustment), if it were to solve the problems of people 
like me, who have been waiting for a Visa number for years. But, we both know that Fee increase 
is not a solution to fix the major problems in the broken immigration system.  

I have a Master's Degree in Business, I started my Greencard Application back in 2002 (with 
RIR), and it is 2007 now, yet I do not have a Greencard. I cannot even file I-485, because there 
are not any visa numbers available. No matter how much you charge for an application, if there is 
no visa number available, there is nothing you can do.  

While I was waiting on my Greencard application to go through the long long process:  

•  My attorney who just started her profession back in 2001, is now a Partner in her 

company. I was a Credit Analyst then and I am still a Credit Analyst now. 

•  Sandy, my wife's best  friend who graduated at the same time with my wife, is now an 
Executive Director in a multi-national company, but my wife is still waiting on my 
Greencard so that she can chase a good job like her best friend Sandy. 
I am very successful in my job. However, my company cannot promote me to any 
position, because they cannot change my title or my tasks. They are so sick of this 
process, they do not want to start over. 

•  The ownership of our bank has changed twice during these six years. Yet I am still a 

• 

Credit Analyst and I am still waiting on a Visa Number to file for Adjudication. 

If the fee increase would change all those facts that I listed above. I am for it.  

You realize before 2000, a person from Europe with a Bachelor's degree could get his Greencard 
in about 18 months through employment. 

Sincerely,  

Levent Ozbilek  
972-913-3144  

This electronic mail message and any files transmitted with it are intended only for the 
use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed, and may contain information 
which is privileged, confidential, proprietary or exempt from disclosure under applicable 
law. If you are not the intended recipient or the person responsible for delivering the 
message to the intended recipient, you are strictly prohibited from disclosing, printing, 
saving, distributing, copying or in any way using this message and any attachments. If 
you have received this communication in error, please immediately notify the sender, and 
destroy and delete any copies you may have received.