National Network to End Violence Against Immigrant Women 

Co-Chaired by the following organizations 

Legal Momentum 
Immigrant Women 
Program 
1522 K Street, N.W. 
Suite 550 
Washington, DC 20005 
(202) 326-
iwp@legalmomentum.org

Family Violence 
Prevention Fund 
383 Rhode Island St., 
Suite 304 
San Francisco, CA 
94103 
(415) 252-8900 
monica@endabuse.org 

ASISTA Immigration 
Assistance 
515 28th Street 
Des Moines, Iowa 50312 
(515) 244-2469 
questions@asistaonline.org

March 28, 2007 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
US Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Ave. NW, 3rd floor 
Washington DC 20529. 

RE:  DHS Docket # USCIS-2006-0044 
Proposed rule— Adjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit 
Application and Petition Fee Schedule 

On behalf of the National Network to End Violence Against Immigrant Women, 
we are writing to strongly oppose the proposed increases for immigration and 
naturalization fees, the elimination of VAWA self-petitioning fees, and changes to 
the fee waiver system as proposed by the US Citizenship and Immigration 
Services (USCIS) on February 1, 2007.   

The National Network to End Violence Against Immigrant Women is comprised of 
over 3,000 professionals nationwide including police, sheriffs, district attorneys, 
probation officers, prosecutors, health providers, churches, rape crisis centers, 
domestic violence shelters, mental health professionals, child protective services 
workers, and immigrant rights’ groups.  The Network’s members are all joined by 
a common purpose -- working towards the eradication of all forms of violence 
perpetrated against immigrant women and children including domestic abuse, 
sexual assault, human trafficking, and stalking.   

Eliminating Fees for VAWA Self-petitioners 
The National Network has worked with Congress since 1994 to craft special 
routes to status for noncitizen survivors of domestic violence and sexual assault. 

1

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
The VAWA self-petitioning provisions and the U visa are two notable products of 
our efforts.  As the authors of these provisions, we strongly object to the 
proposed elimination of fees for VAWA self-petitioners. We did not request this 
fee elimination and we believe it will be more harmful than helpful to self-
petitioners. 

We certainly do not support raising other fees to compensate for the elimination 
of VAWA fees.  We have always opposed “fixes” for survivors of violence that 
harm other immigrants, not only for philosophical reasons, but also because 
immigrant survivors of violence do not live in a vacuum.  Many of them may have 
separated from their abusers and live in families and communities that will be 
harmed by the general fee increases. This, in turn, harms domestic violence 
survivors.  

Self-petitioning is not the only route to status Congress contemplated for 
survivors of violence; the battery or extreme cruelty waiver to conditional 
residence, the U visa, and the special access to work authorization for 
dependents of certain nonimmigrants are examples of other special options 
Congress has created.  Victims of domestic violence must be able to pursue the 
avenues to status that are safest for them, which may not be completely outside 
the special options for violence victims.  

Some self-petitioners can afford to pay the fees, so providing an exception for 
only this category makes no sense. Since USCIS argues that it needs fees to 
ensure efficient adjudication, self-petitioners who can afford to pay the fees 
should do so.  Those that cannot should be able to request a fee waiver, as 
should all otherwise eligible applicants for secure status. 

Fair Fee and Waiver Structure 
What self-petitioners need, like other immigrants, are a fee structure and a 
generous fee waiver system that reflect their financial reality. These principles 
should apply not just to self-petitioning, but to fees for work authorization, 
adjustment of status and other matters associated with obtaining self-petitioning 
status and permanent residence. This is how the current system works, and it 
works well for self-petitioners, promoting safety as well as fairness. Eliminating or 
restricting access to fee waivers for all related applications will undermine 
Congress’ goal to protect and provide secure status to immigrant survivors of 
domestic violence and other crimes. 

USCIS’ suggestion that public charge concerns make fee waivers inappropriate 
for those seeking adjustment of status is inaccurate.  Congress didn’t just 
mandate access to self-petitioning for domestic violence survivors, it also 
smoothed their path to lawful permanent residence, including relaxing public 
charge considerations at the adjustment phase.  Self-petitioners, those seeking 
special immigrant juvenile status, U and T visa applicants, asylees and others 
may be able to overcome public charge concerns even if they obtain fee waivers.   

2

 
 
 
 
 
 
USCIS also argues that regular family-based petitioners should be ineligible for 
fee waivers because they must submit affidavits of support. Given the visa quota 
system and processing backlogs, many regular family-based immigrant 
applicants who need fee waivers at the initial phase may be able to overcome 
public charge concerns by the time USCIS adjudicates their adjustment 
applications.  This approach, in fact, comports with USCIS own instructions on 
considering public charge as a prospective test.  

USCIS should retain the existing fee waiver system, not restrict it.  Giving 
applicants the choice to pay the fees or seek fee waivers is the best way to 
promote victim safety and ensure eligible immigrants participate fully in our 
society. 

Do Not Erect a Financial Fence to Regularizing Status 
Many immigrants already struggle to pay immigration fees. The proposed 
increases in these fees, sometimes double the current fee, will create a financial 
fence to legalizing thousands of immigrants.  Drastically enhanced fees, coupled 
with restrictions on fee waivers, will force many hard-working immigrants into 
undocumented status.  These otherwise eligible immigrants will become more 
vulnerable to exploitation and crime victimization and less able to contribute to 
our communities and formal economy.  This result confounds attempts at 
immigration reform by forcing people to become undocumented instead of 
encouraging them to gain secure legal status. 

USCIS should wait to see what Congress enacts in the coming year before 
suggesting new fees. The new law may create a new stream of money.  
Moreover, USCIS should not rely solely on fees to support its operations. It 
should ask Congress for direct support instead, which Congress has provided in 
the past. 

For all these reasons, the proposal to increase immigration fees and change the 
current fee waiver system is imprudent and Ineffective.  We urge USCIS to 
reconsider this proposal, to retain the existing fee waiver system and fees for 
VAWA self-petitioners, and to seek other sources of funding for its operations, 
rather than shift the burden to selected groups of immigrants.  Thank you for your 
consideration. 

On behalf of the National Network to End Violence Against Immigrant Women 

Gail Pendleton 

Joanne Lin 

         Leni Marin 

/s/ Gail Pendleton 

/s/ Joanne Lin  

                   /s/ Leni Marin 

Asista Immigration   
Assistance 

Legal Momentum 
         Family Violence 
Immigrant Women’s Project        Prevention Fund 

3

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4