APR-83-2887 

81:52 

HQ  MGMT 

, , 

.. 

This  is to  certify  that  this  document is a  Ir 
wrrect copy of Resalut~on No. NS- 2% Y 
passed  d adopted 
the  /3#  dayo 

and 

& 

RESOLUTION NO. NS-27,489 

I 

1 

RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SANTA CRUZ OPPOSING 
THE PROPOSED  CREASE M U N I ~ D  STATES CITIZ~NSEIIP AND 
IMMIGRATION SERVICES FEES 

~ 

W F E A S ,  our nation's and the City of Santa Cruz' immigrants poNations are m&ing 
valuable contributions to the social, cultural, and economic life of the United States of America 
and City of Santa C m ;  and 

WHEREAS, the City of Santa Cruz is home to m y  hardworking, tax-paying, legal 

permanent residents who are eager to become full Americans by pursuin$ the dream of 
U.S. citizenship; and 

WHEREAS, recent Census figures show that 17.4% of Santa Cruz's population is Latino, 

22.3% speak a language other than English in the home, and 15.1% are fpreigwborn; and 

WHEREAS, on February 1,2007, the United States Citizenship and ~mmigration Sewices 
(USCIS) announced a proposal that would raise fees for citizenship and iaturalization services; 
and 

WKEREAS, naturalization fees have been steadily incrcaslng, and in this round of increases, 

the fee for Form N-400 for filing an application for naturalization, for example, is proposed to 
rise from $330 to $595, an increase o f  80%;  and 

WHEREAS, naturalization fee increases result from our nation's funhentally flawed 
system of financing immigration services, which requires the USCIS to rply almost exclusively 
on application fees to fund the delivery of services to immigrants; and 

WHEREAS, the USCIS believes that it needs this massive fee increase to pay for major 
infrastructure investments and process enhmceme-?s, such as impmvempnts in the timeliness of 
background checks, modernization of its outdated business systems throllgh technology 
upgrades, facilities improvements and enhancements in its personnel training and recruitment 
programs; and 

WHEREAS, due to the high cost of housing, lack of jobs that pay livtible wages, and other 
significant factorp many non-citizen households in the City of Santa Crm have annual incomes 
that are less $25,000; and 

WHEREAS, recent Census figures show that the average per capita m u d  income in Santa 

Cruz is only $25,728 and  16.5% of individuals are below the poverty lind; and 

WHEREAS, the proposed fee increase would negatively impact the quality of life and place 
a nearly insurmountable bmier in the path of legal permanent residents in Smta C m  who seek 
to naturalize, many of whom have limited financial resources; and 

WEREAS, the USCIS'  proposed fee increase is contrary to the spirit of our nation's  and 

City of Santa Cruz' tradition of welcoming and integrating immigrants, and sends legd 

APR-83-2887 

81:52 

HQ  MGMT 

282  514  8845 

P.83/18 

RESQLBTION NO. NS-27,489 

, 

I
"
:
I " ?  
,  :  '*,' ' 

,, 

.  . 

! 

, 

permanent residents the wrong message at a time when they are seeking to {mbrace U.S. 
citizenship; and 

1 

WHEREAS, naturalization benefits the City of Santa Cruz by helping toi  ensure that 

immigrants become full participants in our nation's  civic life, which enrichus and maintains the 
vitality or our democracy. 

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of the Ciry of Santa Cruz that 

the City Council hercby opposes the proposcd fce increase by USCIS and calls for a halt in the 
fee increases for all naturalization applications; 

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the City Council of the City of Sank Cruz hereby calls 
on President George W. Bush and the U.S. Congress to address the fundamental problems in our 
nation's  system for financing immigration services by providing appropriations to supplement 
fee revenue to cover costs of major USCIS expenses s u ~ h  as infrastructure ibvestments, process 
enhancements and capital improvements. 

I 

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the City Council authorizes the Mayor to write to the 
Director of the USCIS and include a certified copy of this resolution, to urgd that other means to 
enhance the service improvements are explored, including more Federal ap&npriations, to avoid 
increases in naturalization fees. 

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the City Council authorizes the Mayor lo write the 

President of the United States, Congressman Fan, Congresswoman Eshoo, and Senators 
Feinstein and Boxer, the Speaker offhe United States House of Representatives, and the 
President Pro Tempore of the U.S. Senak, to request their akntion and efforts toward improving 
naturalization operations without fee increases, and include a certified copy b f  this resolution in 
the letter for inclusion in the Congressional Record. 

PASSED AND ADOPTED this  13Ih day of March, 2007, by the followi&  vote: 

AYES: 

Councilmembers Porter, Robinson, Mathews, ~ a d r i ~ b l ,  Vice Mayor 
. 
Coonmy; Mayor Reilly. 

NOES: 

None. 

1 

ABSENT: 

Councilmember Rotkin. 

DISQUALIFIED: 

None. 

APPROVED: 

ATTEST: