From: sgibson@artspresenters.org [mailto:sgibson@artspresenters.org]  
Sent: Sunday, February 18, 2007 4:54 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: DHS No. USCIS-2006-0044 

Director Regulatory Management Division U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, 3rd Floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

Dear Director U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, 

On behalf of the Association of Performing ARts Presenters and 
the more than 2,000 organizations we serve, who in turn serve 
over 2 million audience members every week in the United States 
through performances, I submit these comments in response to the 
proposed rule published in 72 Fed. Reg. 4888-4915 (February 1, 
2007) to adjust the immigration and naturalization benefit 
application and petition fee schedule. 

I am opposed to the proposed increase of the filing fees for 
nonimmigrant worker petitions. The proposed increase in the Form 
I-129 and Form I-824 filing fees will be financially burdensome 
to all nonprofit performing arts organizations. Before the USCIS 
contemplates any price increase, regular processing procedures 
must be improved and processing times must be shortened. The 
$1,000 premium processing fee and system enacted in 2001 is 
prohibitive an option for most nonprofit performing arts 
organizations and artists to use.  

USCIS should not consider a fee increase without first improving 
regular processing procedures in the following ways: 

Reduce the maximum processing period for O and P petitions to 30 
days. Receipt notices from USCIS often indicate that processing 
periods will range anywhere between 30 and 120 days. This time 
span is simply too ambiguous and lengthy to accommodate booking 
and presenting foreign guest artists for performances with a 
fixed date. To engage foreign guest artists, and more freely 
facilitate international cultural exchange, the nonprofit 
performing arts community must be able to rely upon a 30-day 
maximum processing period. Improve the reliability and 
consistency in adjudication of O and P petitions. Current USCIS 
policies and practices result in inefficient processing of O and 
P visas - causing delay, expense, and unwarranted requests for 
further evidence. USCIS must implement uniform policies, 
procedures, and training for efficient processing of petitions. 

Implement uniform policies to improve the traditional expedite 
service. The USCIS has made traditional expedite processing 
available at no additional fee to petitioners who experience an 
unforeseen emergency. Since implementing the Premium Process 
Service, the USCIS has allowed nonprofit organizations to remain 
eligible for the traditional expedite. However, the standards 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
for granting expedited processing requests are unclear. The 
traditional expedite is not helpful unless there are clear, 
uniform policies appropriately followed and administered by 
USCIS. 

More than two-thirds of our members and the wider performing 
arts presenting field are involved in financially beneficial 
cultural exchanges with hundreds artists and arts leaders from 
outside the United States. There are reciprocal relationships in 
place for U.S. artists to also tour and perform outside our 
country. The delays, denials, errors in processing, inconsistent 
procedures and rising costs have greatly undermined this 
critical global cultural exchange and public diplomacy mission. 
Each year millions of dollars in marketing, ticket sales, staff 
and production time and costs are lost with the current process, 
putting our nonprofit performing arts industry at great risk. In 
turn, artists who travel here to perform are important 
ambassadors in communicating knowledge and understanding about 
American culture, traditions and ideas. 

I am grateful for the opportunity to comment on this proposed 
fee increase. We oppose the proposed fee increase and urge the 
USCIS to demonstrably improve processing of regular petitions 
before burdening petitioners with any increase in processing 
fees. 

Thank you for your consideration. 

Sincerely, 
Sandra Gibson 
President %pa_title% CEO 
Association of Performing Arts Presenters 
1112 16th St NW Ste 400 
Washington, DC 20036-4820 

 cc:  
Delegate Eleanor Norton