-----Original Message----- 
From: delsbells@7stages.org [mailto:delsbells@7stages.org] 
Sent: Wednesday, February 28, 2007 12:01 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: DHS No. USCIS-2006-0044 

Director Regulatory Management Division U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration 
Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, 3rd Floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

Dear Director U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, 

On behalf of 7 Stages, Inc, based in Atlanta, and the audiences 
we serve, I submit these comments in response to the proposed 
rule published in 72 Fed. Reg. 4888-4915 (February 1, 2007) to 
adjust the immigration and naturalization benefit application 
and petition fee schedule. 

I am opposed to the proposed increase of the filing fees for 
nonimmigrant worker petitions. The proposed increase in the Form 
I-129 and Form I-824 filing fees will be financially burdensome 
to my nonprofit performing arts organization. Before the USCIS 
contemplates any price increase, regular processing procedures 
must be improved. The need to renovate the USCIS process has 
been clearly articulated by others in our field of cultural 
activity. 

USCIS should not consider a fee increase without first improving 
regular processing procedures in the following ways: 

Reduce the maximum processing period for O and P petitions to 30 
days. Receipt notices from USCIS often indicate that processing 
periods will range anywhere between 30 and 120 days. This time 
span is simply too ambiguous and lengthy to accommodate booking 
and presenting foreign guest artists for performances with a 
fixed date. To engage foreign guest artists, and more freely 
facilitate international cultural exchange, the nonprofit 
performing arts community must be able to rely upon a 30-day 
maximum processing period. 

Improve the reliability and consistency in adjudication of O and 
P petitions. Current USCIS policies and practices result in 
inefficient processing of O and P visas - causing delay, 
expense, and unwarranted requests for further evidence. USCIS 
must implement uniform policies, procedures, and training for 
efficient processing of petitions. We can always expect when we 
apply for a visa that we will be informed at the last minute, 
and this means we cannot get inexpensive air tickets , and the 
visa interview process in the artist home country must be 
squeezed in in a hurry. The visa process alone means no matter 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
how well we plan and how far in advance, we must wait for a 
combuserome and inefficient process to catch up to us. 

Implement uniform policies to improve the traditional expedite 
service. The USCIS has made traditional expedite processing 
available at no additional fee to petitioners who experience an 
unforeseen emergency. Since implementing the Premium Process 
Service, the USCIS has allowed nonprofit organizations to remain 
eligible for the traditional expedite. However, the standards 
for granting expedited processing requests are unclear. 7 Stages 
pays $1,000 as an additional fee to expedite the visa process, a 
huge and burdensome amount. If we do not do this, we are forced 
to wait. The traditional expedite is not helpful unless there 
are clear, uniform policies appropriately followed and 
administered by USCIS. 

I am grateful for the opportunity to comment on this proposed 
fee increase. We oppose the proposed fee increase and urge the 
USCIS to demonstrably improve processing of regular petitions 
before burdening petitioners with any increase in processing 
fees. 

Thank you for your consideration. 

Sincerely, 
Del Hamilton 
Artistic Director 
7 Stages 
1105 Euclid Ave N.E. 
Atlanta, GA 30307 

 cc:  
Representative John Lewis 
Senator Saxby Chambliss 
Senator Johnny Isakson