-----Original Message----- 
From: Rob Robbins [mailto:rob@allianceartistmanagement.com] 
Sent: Saturday, February 24, 2007 5:20 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: USCIS-2006-0044 - Please, no fee increase! 

Dear Colleague: 

I have been in artist management for nearly 25 years and have watched 
with careful eyes the disturbing changes the have developed both in 
policies and in practice by the former INS through the current USCIS.  
It is becoming increasingly difficult for artists abroad to perform in 
the U.S. as acquiring visas has gone from being a tolerable 
inconvenience to an outright obstacle. 

I submit these comments in response to the proposed rule published in 
72 Fed. Reg. 4888-4915 (February 1, 2007) to adjust the immigration and 
naturalization benefit application and petition fee schedule. 

We object to the proposed increase of the filing fees for nonimmigrant 
worker petitions. The proposed increase in the Form I-129 and Form I-
824 filing fees will be a financially burden. Before U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration Services (USCIS) contemplates any price increase, 
regular processing procedures must be improved.  

Delays and unpredictability in visa processing have made it 
increasingly difficult for arts management agencies to present 
international artists in the United States. USCIS should not consider 
any fee increase without first improving regular processing procedures 
in the following ways: 

Reduce the maximum processing period for O & P petitions to 30 days. 
Receipt notices from USCIS often indicate that processing periods for 
regular petitions will range anywhere between 30 and 120 days. This 
time span is simply too ambiguous and lengthy to accommodate booking 
and presenting foreign guest artists for performances with a fixed 
date. To engage foreign guest artists, and more freely facilitate 
international cultural exchange, the nonprofit performing arts 
community must be able to rely upon a 30-day maximum processing period.  

Improve the reliability and consistency in adjudication of O and P 
petitions. Current USCIS policies and practices result in inefficient 
processing of O and P visas - causing delay, expense, and unwarranted 
requests for further evidence. USCIS must implement uniform policies, 
procedures, and training for efficient processing of petitions.  

Implement uniform policies to improve the traditional expedite service.  
The USCIS has made expedited processing available at no additional fee 
in cases where petitioners, through no fault of their own, experience 
an unforeseen emergency, and where failure to expedite the petition 
will result in serious harm, economically or otherwise, to the 
petitioner. However, the USCIS standards for granting expedited 
processing requests are unclear. The traditional expedite is not 
helpful unless there are clear, uniform policies appropriately followed 
and administered by USCIS. 

 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
We are grateful for the opportunity to comment on this proposed fee 
increase. We oppose the proposed fee increase and urge the USCIS to 
demonstrably improve processing of regular petitions. 

Thank you for your consideration. 

Rob Robbins 
Alliance Artist Management 
(212) 304-3538 P/F 
rob@allianceartistmanagement.com 
www.allianceartistmanagement.com
Skype: robrobbinsmusic