From: Adair, Martha [mailto:MAdair@ftportfolios.com]  
Sent: Monday, March 26, 2007 5:58 PM 
To: OSComments@dhs.gov 
Subject: [Docket No: USCIS-2006-0044];[FR Doc: E7-01631];[Page 4887-4915]; Immigration: Benefit 
application fee schedule adjustment 

To Whom It May Concern: 

From: Martha Adair – China Adoption LID 08-08-06 

Date: 03-26-07 

I have just learned of the possible increase in the immigration fee. I am writing to you for the very reason to 
not increase the fee. These families that are giving these children homes are doing a wonderful thing. What 
is the reason for the increase…..for the government to get more money? I don’t see any logical reason for 
the increase. Everything now days has increased but the adoption fees are extremely high for most people 
and now you are thinking of increasing the immigration fee higher, how ridiculous is that!  I myself will be 
looking into adoption from Vietnam next year.  Grants and loans can be very difficult to obtain. Why doesn’t 
the government come up with a loan that could help out?  I’m not rich like some of these movie stars that 
are adopting. I’m a single women living with my sister who is in the process of adopting from China. Why 
not make it a one time fee?  I don’t see a reason for having to renew it? Again more money for the 
government!!  The government takes enough money as it is, especially from people who are single and 
don’t have a husband to rely on for a higher salary.   

I am asking you to think about not changing the cost on this immigration fee and keeping it the same 
amount. Better yet, increasing the amount of months so it won’t have to be renewed, please think 
twice on that. Maybe by doing that you could save some money, less work for everyone?  That would be 
the best.  There is no need for it and it would make things a less stressful for lots of families that are in the 
process of adoption.  

Thank -you for your consideration on this matter. 

Martha Adair 
1682 Monticello Court E 
Wheaton IL 60187 
630-510-0566