From: Linda Gehring [mailto:dazzleknitworks@earthlink.net]  
Sent: Thursday, February 01, 2007 1:19 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044 

As a natural born U.S. citizen, with respect to the proposed increase fee schedule to 'fund' increased costs 
for the processing of applications for legal citizenship and/or residency, I feel the federal government again 
is missing the point, deceiving the public, and 'profiting' at the expense again of its citzenry or potential 
citizenry. 

The provision for a process for immigration and naturalization is included as a federal responsibility in the 
U.S. Constitution, as is 'providing for the common defense.'  These fees should not be levied on the 
citizenry or potential citizenry at all, but come from the federal budget from the annual tax revenue it is 
also empowered to collected, and has been collecting at on a massive scale since at least the 1930s, and also 
added 'levied' taxes on increased fees subjected on the general public without adequate accountability. 

Since the policies and processes for immigration in this post 911 world also, hopefully, include expanded 
background checks and investigation, these are national security issues and part of that 'budget' should 
come from funds earmarked for homeland security and/or defense costs.  Streamlining and reducing the 
fees for the process and funding will then allow the immigration of those individuals, as our forefathers, 
wishing to immigrate to this country in order to assimilate and become Americans, rather than just using 
this country as a place of commerce and/or stronghold against our country and way of life.  Those fees will 
prohibit the very individuals seeking to better their quality of life and or future generations as most of our 
forefathers came to this country also as poor European immigrants.  This is just to ludicrous to believe, the 
fees the federal government, in order to become a 'for profit' rather than 'for the people' insitution, continue 
to subject on its citize 
 ns. 

Speeding up the process in this 911 world may not be possible in order to 'provide for the common defense' 
but streamling the process most certainly is, and in reducing the fees and realigning the funding and 
budgetary provisions as a federal budgetary expense under the already existing relevant departments 
(Defense, Immigration and Naturalization). 

Also, there should only be two categories and fees involved, those for 'temporary workers on work visas' 
and for those wanting 'permanent citizenship.'  These 'resident' applications need to go - it is not illegal, as 
it is in other countries, for noncitizens to own land or property in this country.  And those that do are either 
here under work permits initially, awaiting green card status eventually or return to their former countries.  
Why do the bureuocrats continue to make this so expensive for the country and difficult?