From: mail.relay@mailmanager.net [mailto:mail.relay@mailmanager.net] On Behalf Of John 
Gfoeller, Esq., attorney at law 
Sent: Saturday, March 24, 2007 8:11 AM 
To: Director, Regulatory Management Division 
Subject: DHS Docket No. USCIS--2006-0044 

John Gfoeller, Esq., attorney at law 
P.O. Box 181 
Fremont, OH 43420-0181 

March 24, 2007 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Ave.  NW, 3d Floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

 Director, Regulatory Management Division: 

Saturday, 24 March 2007 

Dear USCIS, 

My name is John Gfoeller, and I am an immigration attorney in Fremont, 
Ohio.  

I am writing to strongly oppose the proposed fee increases for basic 
immigration services, as published in the Federal Register on 1 February 
2007 (pages 4888-4915, proposed rule).  They are severe; they punish the 
law abiding; and they reward the USCIS without requiring accountability.  

The proposed fee increases are severe.  For example, the filing fee for 
the petition for an alien relative, form I-130, would be raised from $190 
to $355.  The filing fee for the citizenship application, form N-400, 
would be raised from $330 to $595.  The filing fee for the application for 
permanent residency, form I-485, would be raised from $325 to $905.  These 
are not the only examples.  

The proposed fee increases punish the law abiding.  Yes, there is some 
fraud in the system.  But, as we all know, the majority of American 
sponsors who use the immigration system are law abiding Americans: 
American spouses, American immediate relatives, and American employers.  
Likewise, the majority of foreign beneficiaries are also law abiding.  
These American citizens and their foreign beneficiaries do not deserve  
--and many cannot afford--  the proposed fee increases.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The proposed fee increases reward the USCIS without requiring 
accountability.  It is not enough to say that the USCIS is a fee-based 
agency.  At a certain point, the beneficiaries of the immigration system 
--American citizens as well as aliens-- simply cannot afford higher fees.  
I represent those people.  They are usually middle class individuals or 
small businesses.  Some of them just don't have the money to pay these 
increased filing fees.  Others could pay the increased fees, but they and 
their families or businesses would be subject to real financial hardship 
as a result.  Yet, immigration is a service that is supposed to benefit 
all of the American people.  Therefore, the USCIS should seek increased 
funding from the U.S. Congress.  The Congress can hold the USCIS 
accountable; and the USCIS should justify to the Congress why increased 
funding is warranted.  

In closing, I ask the USCIS to maintain its current fee schedule.  The 
proposed fee increases are severe; they punish the law abiding; and they 
reward the USCIS without requiring accountability.  They will not help the 
provision of basic immigration services; they will worsen it.  Please do 
not implement the proposed fee increases. 

Respectfully yours, 

John Gfoeller, Esq., attorney at law