From: mrs.maple@gmail.com [mailto:mrs.maple@gmail.com]  
Sent: Sunday, March 04, 2007 8:32 AM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: DHS No. USCIS-2006-0044 

Director Regulatory Management Division U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, 3rd Floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

Dear Director U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, 

On behalf of my performing arts organization and the audiences 
we serve, I submit these comments in response to the proposed 
rule published in 72 Fed. Reg. 4888-4915 (February 1, 2007) to 
adjust the immigration and naturalization benefit application 
and petition fee schedule. 

I am significantly opposed to the proposed increase of the 
filing fees for nonimmigrant worker petitions. The proposed 
increase in the Form I-129 and Form I-824 filing fees will be 
financially burdensome to my nonprofit performing arts 
organization. These fees are already burdensome for 
organizations that cannot afford the premium processing fee - 
and this would possibly affect our decision to present foreign 
artists at all. Before the USCIS contemplates any price 
increase, regular processing procedures must be improved. 

USCIS should not consider a fee increase without first improving 
regular processing procedures in the following ways: 

Reduce the maximum processing period for O and P petitions to 30 
days. Receipt notices from USCIS often indicate that processing 
periods will range anywhere between 30 and 120 days. This time 
span is simply too ambiguous and lengthy to accommodate booking 
and presenting foreign guest artists for performances with a 
fixed date. To engage foreign guest artists, and more freely 
facilitate international cultural exchange, the nonprofit 
performing arts community must be able to rely upon a 30-day 
maximum processing period. 

Improve the reliability and consistency in adjudication of O and 
P petitions. Current USCIS policies and practices result in 
inefficient processing of O and P visas - causing delay, 
expense, and unwarranted requests for further evidence. USCIS 
must implement uniform policies, procedures, and training for 
efficient processing of petitions. 

Implement uniform policies to improve the traditional expedite 
service. The USCIS has made traditional expedite processing 
available at no additional fee to petitioners who experience an 
unforeseen emergency. Since implementing the Premium Process 
Service, the USCIS has allowed nonprofit organizations to remain 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
eligible for the traditional expedite. However, the standards 
for granting expedited processing requests are unclear. The 
traditional expedite is not helpful unless there are clear, 
uniform policies appropriately followed and administered by 
USCIS. 

Lastly, many of our visiting artists have recently realized 
significant delays and issues surrounding their consular visits 
and actual visa processing. These services through the State 
Department also need improvement. 

I am grateful for the opportunity to comment on this proposed 
fee increase. We oppose the proposed fee increase and urge the 
USCIS to demonstrably improve processing of regular petitions 
before burdening petitioners with any increase in processing 
fees. 

Thank you for your consideration. 

Sincerely, 
Allison Carroll 
Events Manager 
Middlebury College Center for the Arts 
72 Porter Field Rd. 
Middlebury, VT 05753 

 cc: 
Senator Patrick Leahy 
Senator Bernie Sanders 
Representative Peter Welch