March 15, 2007 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
US Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Ave. NW, 3rd floor 
Washington DC 20529. 

RE:  DHS Docket # USCIS-2006-0044 
Proposed rule— Adjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit Application 
and Petition Fee Schedule 

On behalf of the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights (ICIRR), I am writing to 
strongly oppose the proposed increase to immigration and naturalization fees that US Citizenship 
and Immigration Services (USCIS) published in the Federal Register on February 1, 2007.   

ICIRR, a coalition of more than 100 member organizations throughout the state of Illinois, 
advocates on behalf of immigrants and refugees on the state and federal level.  This work has 
included administrative advocacy with USCIS (and before March 2003 with INS) regarding 
citizenship issues.  ICIRR advocated for reduction of processing backlogs, commented on 
previous proposals to increase fees, and engaged in the process to redesign the naturalization test.  
In addition, we administer the New Americans Initiative, a three-year pilot program funded by 
the State of Illinois to fund local partnerships that promote citizenship, conduct outreach, and 
organize workshops to assist long-term legal immigrants in completing their naturalization 
applications.  We strongly believe that immigrants should have the opportunity to gain legal 
status and become US citizens.  We oppose the proposed fee increase because, among other 
reasons, it would close off this opportunity for many worthy immigrants. 

The proposed fee levels are excessive, and will create walls that will hinder family 
reunification and prevent immigrants from gaining legal status and becoming US citizens. 
Many of the immigrants and refugees we work with already struggle to pay immigration fees.  
The steep increases proposed by USCIS, which in some cases double the current fee, would put 
the goals of gaining permanent resident status, reuniting with family members, and ultimately 
becoming a US citizen farther out of reach.   

Raising fees on forms such as the I-130 alien relative petition (up to $355) and the I-129F alien 
fiancé petition (up to $455) will keep relatives apart longer.  Nearly doubling the costs of an I-
765 application for employment authorization (from $180 to $340) will create a higher up-front 
cost for immigrants and non-immigrant visa holders who wish to work legally.  And it seems 

36 S. Wabash · Suite 1425 · Chicago IL 60603 
312 332-7360 · fax 312 332-7044 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
unreasonable to charge $290 to replace a green card or $380 to replace a naturalization or 
citizenship certificate. 

The proposed fee for naturalization is particularly jarring.  As recently as 1998, the cost to apply 
for citizenship was $95.  In 2002, after the Bush Administration took office, the costs (including 
biometric fees) went up from $250 to $310.  The total fees are now $400, a fourfold increase in 
the past eight years.  Now USCIS is proposing a further increase of 70%, to $675.  An immigrant 
working at a minimum-wage job would need to work for more than three weeks and save all of 
his earnings in order to pay this fee.  Even higher-earning immigrants find the fees startling:  One 
of my best friends, until recently a lawyer at a mid-size Chicago law firm, found the $390 fee she 
paid in 2004 already excessive, and was shocked to hear that the fee would being increasing 
further. 

Even more startling is the proposed cost of filing for adjustment of status, which for many 
immigrants is the first step on the road leading to US citizenship.  That application has risen from 
$130 in 1998 to $325 today, plus $75 for biometrics.   Under the proposed rule, the price will rise 
to $905 plus $80 for biometrics.  In other words, it will cost nearly $1,000 for an immigrant to 
get a green card and start the five-year countdown to citizenship.  A minimum-wage immigrant 
worker would need to save a full month’s pay to afford the proposed fee.   

USCIS tries to ease this blow by not charging for interim I-765s for employment authorization 
and I-131s for travel documents.  But this “break” only begs the further question of why I-485 
filers should be asked to pay higher fees that include the costs of these interim benefits even 
when they do not need these benefits.  Children do not need EADs, and adjustment applicants 
who are already here working on valid nonimmigrant visas (like H-1(b) visa holders) often will 
not need new work permits.  By USCIS’s own admission, only half of all adjustment applicants 
seek travel documents.  Why not simply have applicants apply for the benefits they actually 
need, rather than trying to create a “one-size-fits-all” application that would overcharge at least 
half of the applicants?  Better yet, why not eliminate the need for adjustment applicants to file 
the I-765 (which asks for information already provided in the I-485), issue EADs to these 
applicants as a matter of course (or provide a check box on the I-485 for those who want an 
EAD), and extend the validity period of EADs (e.g. to two years) to reduce the volume of 
renewal I-765s? 

USCIS’s proposed fee waiver policy is too restrictive. 
Under current policy, individuals and families who cannot afford filing fees can apply for fee 
waivers.  The proposed rule, however, seeks to restrict the availability of fee waivers to only 
certain types of applications.  In particular, adjustment applicants would no longer be able to 
seek waivers.  USCIS’ rationale for this change relies on the public charge ground for 
inadmissibility.  This ground, however, does not apply to asylee adjustment applicants; yet these 
applicants would not be allowed to seek fee waivers.  Nor does the public charge ground apply to 
adjustment applicants under section 202 of NACARA, HRIFA, or registry.  Categorically 
barring adjustment applicants from seeking fee waivers would in effect deny indigent asylees 
and others who are exempt from public charge considerations the opportunity to gain adjustment 
of status. 

2

 
 
 
 
 
 
On the other hand, USCIS proposes to waive fees for all VAWA self-petitions and applications 
for T visas.  At his February 28, 2007, meeting with community organizations in Chicago, 
Michael Aytes of USCIS asserted that these categorical waivers are justified by the high rates of 
waiver requests by individual applicants and the cost of adjudicating these requests.  If the rates 
are so high and the costs so significant, we would ask that USCIS provide actual numbers of 
waiver request rates and adjudication costs so that commenters can evaluate this proposal with 
full knowledge of the rationale.   

Incidentally, under the proposed rule, VAWA self-petitioners would still be required to pay the 
fee for their adjustment of status, and could not get this fee waived.  This is completely at odds 
with whatever humanitarian concerns may underlie the fee exemption for I-360s filed under 
VAWA—or reveals that these concerns have nothing to do with the change. 

More generally, USCIS should explain in more detail why fee waivers should no longer be 
available for each specific application for which it proposes to close off waiver availability.  
Why would waivers no longer be available for I-821 applications for TPS, when the public 
charge ground may be waived for TPS applicants?  What is the justification for closing off fee 
waivers for I-824s?  Again, a more detailed explanation would allow commenters to provide a 
more informed evaluation of the proposal.  

USCIS’s methodology, as presented in the proposed rule, is seriously flawed. 
Rather than provide sound explanations for the proposed fee levels, the rule raises still more 
questions. 

Starting from FY 2007 budget instead of zero-based budgeting 
USCIS starts its cost analysis with the FY 2007 Immigration Examination Fees Account budget, 
$1.76 billion, then removes nonrecurring costs, adjusts for inflation, and adds “additional 
resource requirements” to come up with the total amount it needs to recover, $2.329 billion.  72 
Fed. Reg. 4898-4902, section IV(E).  This methodology stumbles at the very first step:  it 
incorporates the current IEFA budget uncritically, without examining carefully how this money 
is being spent.  It starts with a budget that could involve inefficient expenditures that waste time 
and money and disserve immigrants and families who have filed applications.  For example, the 
last time USCIS raised fees substantially, in April 2004, its proposed rule mentioned that it 
hoped to recover the cost of litigation settlements through that fee increase.  69 Fed. Reg. 5089.  
(February 3, 2004).  If USCIS intends to conduct a truly comprehensive review of its costs, it 
should have engaged in zero-based budgeting.  Only then can we truly know how much USCIS 
services should cost, and how much the agency can legitimately ask applicants to pay in fees. 

Additional resource requirements 
USCIS’ planned service improvements, as described in section IV(E)(3), are for the most part 
urgently needed.  Too often immigrants are stuck in processing backlogs, including months-long 
(even years-long) delays caused by security check requirements imposed as an unfunded 
mandate on an under-resourced FBI.  Last October’s Government Accountability Office report 
that the agency had lost track of 110,000 files needed to process citizenship cases highlighted the 
need for improved file tracking and other infrastructure.  And immigrants and their families still 
have difficulty getting accurate information about their cases.  We do not question the need for 

3

 
 
 
 
 
 
more resources to make USCIS service faster, more reliable, more secure, and more responsive 
to applicant needs. 

Yet we wonder how USCIS calculated these costs.  The proposed rule provides only a 
description of the additional resource and a bottom-line cost estimate.  What assumptions went 
into these calculations?  How closely were these costs scrutinized before being published?  Just 
as USCIS incorporates the FY 2007 IEFA budget uncritically, it appears to include the costs of 
these improvements just as uncritically.    

We also question how quickly USCIS can implement all of these measures.  Can the agency 
really hire all 1,004 new staffers it seeks to “enhance adjudications and support staff” within one 
year—not to mention all of the other new personnel described elsewhere in section IV(E)(3)?  
Would USCIS be able to implement the $124.3 million worth of IT improvements described in 
section IV(E)(3)(d) by the end of FY 2008?  For that matter, how much of the costs of these and 
other improvements be ongoing, and how much would be one-time expense?  Would it not make 
more sense to phase in these initiatives, and phase in the stream of added revenue needed to pay 
for them? 

Finally, we question whether USCIS service will in fact improve with the proposed fee hike.  
Past fee hikes have come with assurances that the additional revenue would help improve 
service.  Yet service issues, such as those described above, persist.  What assurance do 
immigrants and families have that they will get what they pay for?  And who will hold USCIS 
accountable if USCIS fails? 

Overhead v. direct costs 
The proposed rule identifies and describes $924 million in indirect costs, which it defines as 
“ongoing administrative expenses of a business which cannot be attributed to any specific 
business activity, but are still necessary for the business to function.”  72 Fed. Reg. 4905; Section 
VI(A). Such costs, in other words, are not connected to actually moving an application forward, 
unlike the “direct costs” associated with processing an application.  But after briefly discussing 
these overhead costs, the agency pulls a sleight-of-hand by incorporating them as an (unstated) 
fixed percentage of the processing activity unit costs (i.e. the direct costs) for each application.  
USCIS thus makes these indirect costs disappear as an explicit factor in calculating its fees, 
rather than honestly stating how it is making immigrants and families pay for its overhead. 
USCIS should at very least make clear what fixed percentage it is using to fold its overhead 
expenses into its unit costs. 

“Make determination” cost estimates 
How did USCIS calculate the “make determination” cost estimates (72 Fed. Reg. 4908-9, section 
VII(B), Table 10)?  USCIS states that these costs are related to the complexity of the application, 
but does not explain how this complexity is measured, or what formulas were used to derive the 
cost estimates from such measures of complexity.  One would think that the completion rates set 
forth in Table 9 (72 Fed. Reg. 4908) are somehow related to these calculations, but USCIS does 
not explain how.  In particular, USCIS does not discuss its assumptions about its personnel costs 
per unit of touch-time.  Indeed, comparing these completion rates with the make determination 
costs reveal several disparities:   

4

 
 
 
 
 
 
(cid:190)  The total completion rate is 3.21 hours for an I-360 and 3.39 hours for an N-470, yet the 

make determination cost for an N-470 is only $428, while for an I-360 that cost is $2,268.  
Why are the make determination costs for two applications with similar touch-times so 
different?      

(cid:190)  The completion rates for an I-539 are 1.32 hours at the local office and .39 hours at the 
service center.  For an I-751, the completion rates are 1.36 hours at the local office and 
.46 hours at the service center.  Yet the make determination cost is $84 for an I-539, but 
$210 for an I-751.  Why the difference of $126 for applications with nearly identical 
completion rates at each office? 

Volume estimates 
Even the volume estimates set forth in Table 7 (72 Fed. Reg. 4904-5, section V(B)) are 
questionable.  USCIS assumes that the total annual fee-paying volume of applications will 
decline by 960,204 for FY 2008/2009.  Of this drop, however, 88% is accounted for by decreases 
in fee-paying volume for the I-131, I-765 and I-90.  (While USCIS explains that the fee-paying 
volume for I-131s and I-765s will fall because it will not charge adjustment applicants for these 
forms, it never explains why it anticipates a drop of 130,000 (nearly 20%) for I-90s.)  USCIS 
assumes a relatively minimal impact on filing volume for nearly all other applications.   

USCIS’s own numbers, however, show that applications surge in anticipation of fee increases, 
then plummet.  Such a surge is already happening with citizenship applications:   Nationwide, 
772,416 immigrants filed N-400s in calendar 2006, up 28% from calendar 2005.  N-400s filings 
rose 37% from October-December 2005 to October-December 2006.  In Chicago alone, N-400 
filings rose 67% from October-December 2005 to October-December 2006.  In December 2006 
alone, 4,358 N-400s were filed, compared to 1,773 in December 2005.  In Los Angeles, 10,694 
N-400s were filed in December 2006, compared to 5,411 in December 2005.  If the historical 
pattern holds true, application rates will drop sharply when the fee increase take effect.  

USCIS has argued that historically, even with such surges and plunges, application rates 
eventually level off after a few months.  (Mr. Aytes stated as much in his meeting with Chicago 
CBOs on February 28.)  But this fee increase could have a much more severe impact.  Past 
increases never involved such high baseline fees before the increase, or such large increases by 
dollar amount.  It is not enough to argue, as USCIS does, that past increases were larger than the 
current proposal by percentage, because again this time the baseline is much higher, just as 50% 
of $100 is more than 75% of $50.  The large overall fee amounts will surely cause many 
applicants to delay their applications (especially for those forms for which fee waivers are not 
available), and cause applications rates to fall accordingly.   

If such a drop were to happen, where will USCIS turn to recover its costs?  Indeed, if current 
fees are too low to recover costs, as USCIS argues, USCIS is losing money on each application 
now being filed in advance of the increase.  How will USCIS make up the loss?  Indeed, is the 
proposed fee increase (paradoxically) intended to make up for this loss? 

Comprehensive fee study  
Most basically, where is USCIS’ comprehensive fee study?  We would hope that this fee review 
would provide a more complete, more coherent, and more honest look at USCIS costs.  Anyone 

5

 
 
 
 
 
 
concerned with those costs, including Congress, advocates, and the American people, needs to 
see it.  USCIS should at very least publish information on how interested parties can access the 
study, or better yet make the study available on its website.. 

USCIS is not compelled by law to recover its costs of operation on the backs of immigrants 
and families. 
USCIS also argues that it has no other option than raising fees if it wants to cover its costs.  This 
is patently false.  USCIS cites section 286(m) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 USC § 
1356(m)) to claim that it must recover its full costs through fees.  But this section states merely 
that the agency “may be set at a level that will ensure recovery of the full costs of providing all 
such services.”  The statute is permissive, not mandatory. 

USCIS also cites Circular A-025 issued by the Office of Management and Budget.  The circular 
states as federal policy that the federal government should impose user charges on recipients of 
“special benefits” that would be sufficient to recover the full cost of providing the benefit.  This 
document, however, is a policy guidance that lacks the force of law.  Furthermore, even by its 
own terms, the circular provides for exceptions to this general policy.  Such exceptions can be 
made when “any other condition exists that, in the opinion of the agency head or his designee, 
justifies an exception.”  OMB Circular A-025, section 6(c)(2)(b).  In other words, USCIS can 
make exceptions to the “recovery of full cost” policy for any reason.  Certainly the burden that 
the fees would impose on immigrants moving toward citizenship should be reason enough to 
break with this policy. 

Indeed, in the proposed rule itself, USCIS is already setting fees for several forms at levels that 
would not recover its full costs.  The most frequently used of these forms is the I-360 self-
petition, which by USCIS calculations has a unit cost of $2,480.  72 Fed. Reg. 4909-10;   Section 
VIII, Table 11.  Yet rather than charge the full unit cost, which would increase the fee by 1205%, 
USCIS decided to increase the fee by only 96%, the average percentage fee increase.  72 Fed. 
Reg. 4910; Section IX(B).  Although USCIS asserts that the costs not recovered through fees for 
these forms were prorated to other applications, this pro-rating is not obvious from the fee table.  
It is difficult to believe that simply rounding up the unit cost of each of these other applications 
to the next higher increment of $5 makes up all these costs. 

As a matter of public interest and good business sense, USCIS should pursue Congressional 
appropriations and other revenue to fund its operations and ease the burden on fee-paying 
immigrants and families. 
A broader public interest more than justifies a fee structure that does not impose excessive fees 
on immigrants and their families.  Immigration and citizenship are public goods that benefit our 
entire country and that we as a nation should help pay for.  Immigrants bring their talent and hard 
work to our economy.  They pay taxes and help revitalize our communities.  In becoming 
citizens, immigrants demonstrate their strong commitment to their new home country by learning 
English, gaining knowledge about American history and government, and swearing allegiance to 
the United States.  We should be encouraging immigrants to become part of our community by 
gaining legal status and becoming citizens, not setting up barriers that block their path and keep 
them out.   

6

 
 
 
 
 
 
USCIS should therefore actively seek Congressional funding to help underwrite its costs.  It is 
far too easy and glib to say that the costs of immigration services should not be imposed on 
American taxpayers.  Such rhetoric ignores the basic fact that immigrants themselves pay taxes, 
and indeed become more productive as they learn English, develop roots in the US, and 
ultimately become citizens.  Imposing ever-increasing fees on immigrants slights their 
contributions to their new home country—and indeed may deny them the opportunity to 
contribute more. 

USCIS has in fact requested and received funding for Congress in the recent past, including most 
recently funding for backlog reduction.  The agency could easily do so again.  Indeed, in light of 
the shift in control of Congress to leadership that is more favorably disposed toward immigrants, 
it is likely that such a funding request would find support. 

Yet USCIS stubbornly insists that it must recover all of its costs through fees.  Part of USCIS’s 
argument is that it operates like a business, and accordingly must charge enough for its products 
if it is to remain solvent.  But USCIS does not carry this business analogy far enough.  In the 
private sector, businesses distinguish between operating costs and capital investments.  Rather 
than relying just on sales revenues and profits to fund infrastructure and other capital 
improvements, businesses pursue other funding sources:  loans, bonds, sales of stock and other 
equity.  And often businesses cover operating costs through other means, such as selling 
advertising and paraphernalia beyond their usual product lines.  Even the US Postal Service no 
longer relies on just selling postage.   

Just as businesses do not rely solely on sales revenue, particularly for infrastructure costs, USCIS 
should not rely just on fees.  There is no reason why USCIS could not seek Congressional 
funding or other funding to underwrite (at least) the overhead costs it describes in Section 
Section VI(A).  Yet USCIS is not only renouncing Congressional funding, but is also pushing 
aside another potential funding source:  premium processing fees.  72 Fed. Reg. 4893-4; Section 
III(C)(4).  When Congress approved premium processing in 2000, many advocates raised 
concerns that premium processing would in effect create two tiers of service, one for businesses 
that pay the premium, and another, worse one for the overwhelming majority of applicants who 
do not.  In implementing premium processing, INS offered assurances that it would use the 
premium “to hire additional adjudicators, contact representatives, and support personnel to 
provide service to all its customers” and to fund infrastructure improvements.  66 Fed. Reg. 
29683 (June 1, 2001) (emphasis added).   

Now USCIS proposes to isolate premium processing revenue, and use this revenue to “transform 
USCIS from a paper-based process to an electronic environment.”  72 Fed. Reg. 4894.  While 
this initiative may benefit some applicants, particularly those who have access to the internet, 
they will be of little or no use to those who do not have such access.  These applicants include 
many who lack formal education or adequate income—indeed, the very immigrants and families 
who will most likely be delayed or deterred from filing by the fee increase.  In other words, 
significant numbers of immigrants and families will not benefit from, and indeed will be harmed 
by, USCIS’s decision to isolate premium processing revenue.  Rather than using the premiums 
“as envisioned by Congress,” USCIS’s proposal contradicts this vision.  USCIS should 
reconsider this sequestration and allocate at least part (if not all) of the premium processing 

7

 
 
 
 
 
revenue to its budget calculations.  Factoring this revenue and other sources of funding as well as 
using honest, closely scrutinized cost figures, USCIS should completely review its fee 
calculations. 

Conclusion 
For all these reasons, the proposal to increase immigration fees is flawed, misguided, dishonest, 
and counterproductive.  We urge USCIS to reconsider this proposal, scrutinize its cost 
calculations, seek other sources of funding for its operations, and come up with a new fee 
proposal, rather than add more burdens on immigrants.  Thank you for your consideration. 

Sincerely 

Fred Tsao 
Policy director 

cc:  US Senator Barack Obama 
  US Senator Richard Durbin 
  US Representative Luis Gutierrez 
  US Representative Jan Schakowsky 

8