From: Mara Surridge [mailto:msurridge@verizon.net]  
Sent: Saturday, March 31, 2007 10:19 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: [Docket No: USCIS-2006-0044];[FR Doc: E7-01631];[Page 4887-4915]; Immigration: 
Benefit application fee schedule adjustment 

Dear Sir or Madam, 

I want to share my feelings about the proposed fee increases to the 
immigration processing fees in regards to adoption. My husband and I are 
currently perusing the adoption of our first child from China, and this 
fee increase would directly impact our family. I cannot even begin to 
tell you the negative impact this fee increase would have on the 
adoption community. 

Our experience with our local USCIS office (Washington DC) has not been 
positive. It appears that there is one woman who is doing all the 
processing, and the office is one of (if not the) slowest in the 
country. This woman, while very nice (and very good about returning 
emails), has taken it upon herself to require additional information 
from every family that submits an I600-A. At the same time, the wait 
time for parents adopting from China has increased to the point that all 
families will have to renew all of their USCIS paperwork (and 
fingerprints). This all means that our family is going to have to pay 
nearly $1000 to update our homestudy and re-file our I600-A (and be 
refingerprinted). Now the USCIS is proposing to increase these fees. 
What benefit am I, as an adoptive parent, going to see from this 
increase? The increase is over 65% - will my paperwork be processed 65% 
faster? If so, I may be able to support this. But if experience holds 
true, the money will not be used to process my paperwork faster - in 
fact, it's unclear where this extra money will go. 

It seems like an easier solution would be to increase the length of time 
that fingerprints and the I171-H is good for. It has always seemed crazy 
to me that a high level security clearance is good for 5 years; these 
fingerprints are only good for 1. Perhaps, too, officers such as the one 
in the Washington DC office should not be asking for so much extra 
information (why she has been allowed to request detailed financial 
information from every adoptive family is beyond me) in order to lessen 
their workloads. 

Please do not increase the fees. You will be doing a service to the 
entire adoption community, and to the children worldwide that we adopt. 

Mara Surridge