Christie Landes 
35 05 30th Street 2G 
Astoria, NY 11106 

March 24, 2007 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Ave.  NW, 3d Floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

 Director, Regulatory Management Division: 

As a paralegal working in the field of immigration law, I have significant 
experience with the immigration process.   I am dismayed by the Service's 
proposal to radically increase its fees.   1. The proposal to combine EAD 
and AP fees with the AOS fee is a poorly thought out one, as many AOS 
applicants do not require EAD and AP documents.Fees for those three 
different application should be kept individual and separate. 2. User fees 
should not  fund Internal Security and Investigative Operations for the 
investigation of misconduct of federal workers and contract employees.... 
3. The processing of FOIA requests should receive appropriate funding from 
the government, not from immigration-related user fees. 4. The very large 
fee increases proposed place a heavy financial burden on those who must 
utilize the Immigration Service to seek permissible benefits..namely 
noncitizens, authorized or unauthorized. It's important to remember that 
immigration law should serve economic, political and social needs of the 
US, not just "national security" needs. For example, universities and 
colleges and research institutions benefit, along with our entire economy, 
from foreign national students and scholars. There are sectors of the US 
economy that are wholly dependent on highly-skilled foreign labor, as we 
are not "growing our own" at the needed rates or in the needed areas, such 
as science, math and engineering. The increase in fees seems, admitted or 
not, aimed at funding border enforcement and security concerns, not at 
funding equally important efforts to identify undocumented immigrants to 
bring them out of the shadows, to fund a possible amnesty program, to 
possibly fund a guest worker program...  Finally, the service derived from 
USCIS is oftentimes of such a poor quality ..and typically so combative 
and adversarial. The Service has not performed in such a way that 
justifies fee increases of this magnitude. 

Sincerely, 

Christie Landes 
7187843040