From: gerald locker [mailto:brigadier192003@yahoo.com]  
Sent: Thursday, February 01, 2007 12:10 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044 

Dear Sir/Madam, 

I would like to take this opportunity to give you my 
feelings on this proposal and hope that more rational 
heads will disallow this. 
I have been intimately involved with the entire 
immigration procedures and I find this new proposal to 
be vindictive and mean spirited like no other proposal 
I have come across in some time. It has little to do 
with needing more money but an overt attempt to make 
the procedures based on economics even more Draconian. 
Many, but not all, of the personnel working for 
Immigration, having specific duties involved in the 
actual procedures relating to initially applying to 
finally receiving citizenship are simply not doing 
their job and, in fact, are wasting the Governments 
money by doing as little work as possible.  It does 
not take that much time to open a file and make a 
decision on how to handle that particular case.  For 
the most part, files remain closed and only after a 
lawyer has had to be paid to pursue the file does it 
get opened and some type fo decision made.  The costs 
for an average immigrant to get their green card goes 
way beyond the mere filing fees demanded.  Cost of 
time, energy and other monies to finally get their 
case looked at is almost criminal. 
To get a green card or other chances to become a legal 
resident or a citizen should not become such a 
stressful endeavor.  It is common practice for the 
person interviewing the immigrant to make life as 
difficult as possible with questionable arguments and 
demands that cannot be overruled or appealed.  If a 
person has all the paperwork required and has been 
fingerprinted and investigated there is no reason for 
them to be constantly humilated by those in power. 
Lawyers know of hundreds of these type of persons who 
seemingly are given the green light to do this. 
Becoming a citizen or legal resident should be a time 
of wonderful celebration and opportunity to brighten 
the life of these people.  By adding more money will 
not improve the lot of these people in time since it 
is the unwritten policy of Immigration to take as much 
time as they want and make the individuals jump 
through as many hoops as they decide to demand. 
The money is going to pay higher salaries to those in 
charge, more benefits and nothing will change.  It is 

 
 
 
 
 
my contention that considerate and effective workers 
could clear the backlog of these offices within 60 
days without resorting to additional funding and I 
would respectfully request that this new regulation be 
dismissed or denied.  Having more people will only 
inflate the already overinflated budgets and staffs 
and will just create new problems of bureaucratic 
incompetence. 

Respectfully yours, 

Gerald Locker 
602-843-3650