From: Alexander Lumelsky [mailto:al@lumoglaw.com]  
Sent: Wednesday, February 28, 2007 4:04 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: Comment: 8 CFR 103, fee changes 

I am an immigration attorney in the Hartford, Connecticut area, and I believe that the 
$174.00 average fee hike that the Service is presently proposing is for lack of more 
accurate description ridiculous. In the last one to two years, the immigrants of this 
country have recevied two fee hikes from DHS/CIS. Take an I-130 Petition for instance. 
Originally a $130.00 fee, was change to $185.00 and now $190.00. A typical adjustment 
of status application which includes the I-485, the I-130, the I-765 and I-131 (as well as 
biometrics) presently costs the intending immigrant $925.00 (combined). If all of these 
application fees are increased by $174 on average, the immigrant must pay $1,621.00 
(biometrics increase unknown) for a green card application based on family petition, if 
they wish to also have a work authorization and travel document. This is in excess of 
attorney's fees for actual attorney's services to provide representation in such an 
application likely in most parts, if not all parts, of the United States. CIS is actually 
arguing that its costs in adjusdicating these applications are greater than what 
professional attorneys' fees cost the same applicant.  

Similarly a naturalization application will increase from an already outrageous $400.00 to 
at least $574.00, depending on biometrics increase. This is also likely in excess of 
attorneys' fees for services on such an application in most parts of the country.  

To justify this unprecedented increase of $174, CIS is claiming that those are the costs of 
adjudication. Well, how about we cut those costs of adjudication, especially since CIS 
services, although expedited to some degree, are still highly lacking in timing, quality and 
customer service. For instance, the InfoPass system, created to convenience everyone 
involved and expedite appointments, is beginning to fail its customers in the manner it is 
actually administered once the immigrant or inquirer arrives at the CIS office. Instead of 
waiting in line to see an officer at all for hours on end, now immigrants must hunt out a 
proper time to visit the InfoPass website when appointments are posted, two weeks in 
advance, and then still spend three to four hours waiting for potentially incorrect advice 
or no assistance at all. All this because in Hartford, for example, there is usually only one 
customer service officer working on receiving inquiries at any one time. So InfoPass does 
not eliminate the wait at immigration services, but rather permits the customer service 
representatives to take their sweet time in handling inquiries or to provide one active 
customer service officer per business day.  

Efficient cost cutting is the answer to this alleged costly application process, as argued by 
CIS. Cutting costs and increasing organization of the local and service center offices will 
decrease the costs of adjudication. Where is the plan for that?  

 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
There are also way too many background checks and other measures that are applied to 
all immigrant indiscriminately which waste a large amount of resources without any gain 
whatsoever. All those background checks ... are they really all necessary? Let's be smart 
about this and not put all of the immigrants through the same ridiculous procedures that a 
potential terrorist would be put through. We are wasting resources. A Russian Jewish 
pensioneer does not need to be put through an FBI background check during his 
naturalization application. He is undoubtedly NOT a terrorist. And the delay in the check 
causes him to be interviewed 2-3 times instead of once, and his fingerprints taken 4-5+ 
times. This is waste.  

We need to keep in mind that for the most part immigrants are hard working persons of 
limited means arriving from countries of limited means, and if they have to save for green 
card application filing fees, say $1,621.00 worth, for a whole year just to have lawful 
status in the United States, that is neither fair nor reasonable. Such fees are burdensome, 
and such fee hikes only permit the Service to continue to perform inefficiently and to 
make further hikes to compensate for its inefficiency in the future.  

Acceptable fee hikes would be at $5.00 to $10.00 per year to compensate for inflation. 
Thank you for your time. 

Alexander Lumelsky, Esq. 
LUMELSKY & MOGILEVICH, LLP 
270 Farmington Avenue, Suite 365 
Farmington, CT 06032 
(860) 677-8960 
fax (860) 677-8594 
www.lumoglaw.com 
al@lumoglaw.com