M a r   3 0   2 0 0 7   2:46PM 

C C   REFUGEE  PROGRRM 

2 1 0 2 4 2 3 1 7 4  

Catholic Charities, Archdiocese of San Antonio,  Inc. 

Department 

Phone Number 

Fax Number 

Addescent Parenting & Pregnancy, Adoption,  APP 
Caregiver's Day Out Program 
Catholic Counseling & Consultation Center 
Children's Health Insurance Program 
Crisis Intervention Program 
Earned Income Tax Credit Program 
Finance Department 
Foster Grandparent Prcgram 
Guadalupe Home 
Guardianship Sewices Pmgram 
Immigration Program 
Money Management Program 
President 
Refugee Resettlement Program 
Retired & Senior Volunteer Pmgram 
Senior Employment Program 

FAX COVER SHEET 

PAGES INCLUDING COVER a- 

TO: 

COMPANY: 

FAX #: 

FROM: 

DATE: 

Confidentiality Statement:  The information contained in this facsimile message is privileged and 
mnfdential information intended for the use of the addressee listed above.  I f  you are neither the 
intended recipient nor the agent responsible for delivering this information to the intended 
recipient, yw  are hereby n o t i f i  that any disclosure,  copying,  distributing,  or taking d a n y  action 
in reliance of the content of this telecopied information Is strictly prohibited.  I f  you have received 
this copy in error,  please immediately notify us by telephone to arrange for the telecopy to be 
returned to us. 

Message: 

M a r   3 0   2 0 0 7   2 : 4 6 P M  

C C   R E F U G E E   P R O G R R M  

March 29,2007 

In regards to: DHS Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044 

Director, Regulatory Management Divisions 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
11 1 Massachusetts Avenue, NW,  3rd Floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

To Whom It May Concern: 

I am  writing  in response  to  the  exorbitant increase  in  application  fees  for immigrants, 
rehgees and asylum seekers entering the U.S.  The fee increase, which is in some cases is 
triple the  current rate, is said to  cover the cost of background checks performed by the 
FBI.  There are two most notable objections to this added expense. 

First,  individuals entering the  U.S. for  any purpose  other  than  a  vacation  are already 
required and receiving background checks for clearance to enter and remain in the United 
States.  This seems to beg the question "why  would the government allow individuals to 
enter the  country for more than a holiday if their  background  is of such a nature  as to 
prevent them  from attaining U.S.  citizenship?" If individuals are deemed safe to remain 
within  U.S.  borders  for  months,  even  years,  why  then  would  they  need  yet  another 
background check? 

Second and  lastly, the majority of individuals immigrating or seeking refuge within the 
U.S.  do  not  possess  the  extra  funds  to  cover  such  an increase  in  application  costs. 
Refugees in particular, often have larger families to care for and those arriving h m  the 
third world generally have a longer and more difficult financial road to travel.  I therefore 
urge  USCIS  and  the  Department  of  Homeland  Security  to  amend  the  increase  in 
naturalization application costs in consideration of those who will be future Americans. 

Sincerely, 

Kathleen Smith 
Educator/Case  Manager Assistant 
Refugee Resettlement Services 
Carholic Chities of San Antonio 

202  W.  F R E N C H   PL.  SAN  A N T O N I O ,   T X  78212