From: Cheryl Jones-Das [mailto:Cheryl_Jones_Das@LCFS.org]  
Sent: Friday, March 30, 2007 12:59 PM 
To: OSComments 
Cc: La Nell Hill 
Subject: USCIS fee increases Docket number USCIS-2006-0044 

To:   The United States Citizenship and Immigration Services  
Re:  Fee Increases Docket number USCIS-2006-0044 

Lutheran Child and Family Services of Illinois is very concerned about the proposed fee 
increase in adoption-related petitions.   

International adoption has become so expensive that many families in the United States 
can not afford to adopt a child from overseas.   Because there are few healthy infants and 
toddlers available for adoption in the United States, this means that couples who 
desperately want children and can not have them biologically are having difficulty in 
financing an international adoption. The fees associated with CIS are already expensive.  
In addition, some families must re-file and re-pay the fees because the I600A application 
expires within 18 months and many countries are not able to process the adoption before 
the I600A application expires.  Also, many families must be re-fingerprinted and pay this 
fee again because their fingerprint clearances expire in 15 months and their adoption has 
not been completed in that time frame.   

CIS is now proposing an I600A application fee increase that is more than 20% over the 
current fee!  This poses a hardship on adoptive families and may result in fewer orphans 
who need homes being placed.  If this increase is approved, I would hope that CIS would 
also make an exception for adoptive parents, at least one of whom must be a US citizen, 
so that their fingerprints and the I600A petition would not expire for 24 months.  This at 
least would help families who currently must be re-fingerprinted (currently at $70.00 per 
person and proposed to be $80.00 per person) and who must re-file the I600A petition.   

CIS is also asking for a fee increase for the N600 application for a certificate of 
citizenship to $460.00.  This is over 12 times the current fee!  Since CIS has already 
scrutinized the child’s documents from the foreign country and granted the child a 
permanent resident visa and the children are automatically granted US citizenship upon 
the adoption here becoming final, the proposed fee increase to simply obtain the 
certificate of citizenship seems very high indeed!   

Finally, after the local CIS office has already approved an I600A petition, to charge 
$150.00 more than they already charge to simply re-cable the approval to a different 
foreign Embassy also seems to be an unwarrantedly high increase.   

Adoptive families are already US citizens.  They already support USCIS through their taxes.  
Please do not make their dreams of having a child so expensive that they can not afford it.   

Cherie Jones Das, International Adoptions Coordinator 
Lutheran Child and Family Services of Illinois  
333 West Lake Street 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Addison, Illinois 60510 
Phone:  630-628-6448X223 
Fax:  630-628-6118 
This message and any attachments included are from Lutheran Child and Family Services of 
Illinois and are for the sole use by the intended recipient(s).  The information contained herein 
may include confidential or privileged information.  Unauthorized review, forwarding, printing, 
copying, distributing, or usage of such information is strictly prohibited and may be unlawful.  If 
you receive this message in error, or have reason to believe you are not authorized to receive it, 
please contact the sender by reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.