American Immigration Lawyers Association 
_______________________________________________________ 
918 F Street, N.W.  Washington, D.C. 20004  

(202) 216-2400 

April 1, 2007 

Via email: OSComments@dhs.gov 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Ave.  NW, 3d Floor 
Washington, D.C. 20529 

Re:   DHS Docket No. USCIS—2006-0044 

Comment to Proposed Rule “Adjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization 
Benefit Application and Petition Fee Schedule” (72 Fed. Reg. 4888 (February 1, 
2007)) 

Dear Sir or Madam: 

The American Immigration Lawyers Association (AILA) is a voluntary bar association of 
more than 10,000 attorneys and law professors practicing and teaching in the field of 
immigration and nationality law.  AILA takes a very broad view on immigration matters 
because our member attorneys represent tens of thousands of U.S. families who have 
applied for permanent residence for their spouses, children, and other close relatives to 
lawfully enter and reside in the United States.  AILA members also represent thousands 
of U.S. businesses and industries that sponsor highly skilled foreign professionals seeking 
to enter the United States on a temporary basis or, having proved the unavailability of 
U.S. workers, on a permanent basis.  Our members also represent asylum seekers, often 
on a pro bono basis, as well as individuals seeking U.S. citizenship. 

AILA acknowledges the philosophy behind OMB Circular No. A-25, that activities “that 
convey special benefits to recipients beyond those accruing to the general public” should 
be funded by user fees rather than appropriated funds.  This approach is applied to U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) through INA section 286(m), which states 
that “fees for providing adjudication and naturalization services may be set at a level that 
will ensure recovery of the full costs of providing all such services.”   We understand 
that, because of limited resources and a desire to run government in a more business-like 
manner, revenue sources other than appropriations must be utilized.   

We therefore accept that USCIS will charge user fees.  However, we do not accept 
making user fees the agency’s nearly-exclusive source of funding.  As discussed in detail 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
below, we question the appropriateness of some of the uses to which USCIS plans to put 
the funds, we are concerned about the public impact of some of the fee increases, we 
have doubts about the efficacy of the agency’s plans for the funds, and we believe that 
the proposed fees were improperly calculated. 

Above all, we do not accept the amounts of the proposed fees.  USCIS is trying to charge 
its customers like a business, but it clearly does not run like one.  Unlike most businesses, 
it has no competitors and no market incentives to achieve efficiencies.  Unlike 
comparable businesses—those that are intrinsically a monopoly—it lacks a regulatory 
body other than Congress to question usurious rates.   And, as long as USCIS receives 
negligible amounts of money by way of appropriations, Congressional oversight will 
remain highly limited.  That is no more acceptable than the amounts of the proposed fees 
themselves. 

The Need to Request Appropriations. 

The proposal includes activities not appropriate for user fee funding. 

USCIS seems to be starting from the premise that it is required to fund itself entirely from 
user fees, no matter what the activity.  This premise is erroneous in two ways.  First, the 
statute does not require fee-based funding—it merely allows it:  “fees for providing 
adjudication and naturalization services may be set at a level that will ensure recovery of 
the full costs of providing all such services.”1 (emphasis added.)   

Second, the statute authorizes USCIS to set fees for providing adjudication and 
naturalization services.  The INA does not provide authorization for fees to cover other 
activities.  USCIS has chosen to expand its mission beyond such adjudication and 
naturalization and enter into the realm of law enforcement.  We will save for another day 
the debate over whether those law enforcement activities belong in USCIS, which 
Congress, when it established the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), deliberately 
split off from the rest of the former INS functions.  Suffice it to say, the intent was that 
USCIS would be the adjudicative arm, and ICE and CBP the enforcement arms, of DHS. 

That adjudications mission, however, has drifted.  In his February 14, 2007, statement to 
the House Judiciary immigration subcommittee, USCIS Director Emilio Gonzalez listed 
five priorities to be addressed by the fee increases, with fraud prevention and national 
security enhancements listed first and training to ensure a skilled workforce next to last.2  
The Federal Register notice respecting the fee increase also states, “USCIS’ security 
related activities and objectives are its highest priority in allocating resources.”3   

1 INA section 286(m) 
2  Statement of Emilio Gonzalez, Director, USCIS, Department of Homeland Security, Regarding a 
Proposal to Adjust the Immigration Benefit Application and Petition Fee Schedule, before the House 
Judiciary Committee, Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security and 
International Law, Feb. 14, 2007. 
3  72 Fed.Reg. 4888, 4892 (Feb. 1, 2007) 

2

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
 
USCIS’ web page logo sounds out the theme “Protecting America - We are USCIS”, with  
no mention of adjudications or service, only of law enforcement and security.  And the 
first paragraph of a recent newspaper profile of the USCIS Director noted “…U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services helps nab an average of five criminals a day, 
including the occasional murder suspect -- a point that agency Director Emilio Gonzalez 
underscores when he discusses the USCIS role in the Homeland Security Department.”4

AILA has no quarrel with DHS engaging in law enforcement, security activities and 
fraud detection.  Quite the contrary—that’s in large part what DHS was set up to do.5  
However, AILA does quarrel with law enforcement being the stated goal of the "service" 
branch of the agency and with the utilization of filing fee revenues to pay for these 
activities.   The authorizing statute limits the fee-funding scope to “providing 
adjudication and naturalization services” (emphasis added) and administering the fees. 6  
Many of the costs anticipated by this fee regulation—most particularly, those undertaken 
by the National Security and Records Verification (NSRV) directorate—should not be 
charged to the fee account.   These are law enforcement activities, not the provision of 
adjudication and naturalization services, and thus should be paid for as all other law 
enforcement is financed—through appropriated funds. 

We also find it odd that the discussion of the financial needs of the NSRV does not seem 
to account for an existing source of significant funds:  every petitioner for H-1B and L-1 
benefits is required to pay a one-time $500 anti-fraud fee. 7  In the proposed rule, the 
revenues from this fee are dismissed with a passing reference to “several smaller, specific 
accounts,”8 as though the amounts received from this fund are insignificant.  To the 
contrary, this account should more than cover the activities of the Fraud Detection and 
National Security (FDNS) Division of the NSRV.  

One-third of this anti-fraud fee is supposed to go to DHS.  The 65,000 cap-subject H-1Bs 
alone yield $32.5 million in revenues, or $10.8 million as DHS’ yearly share.  Individual 
L-1 petitions, L-1 consular applications under blanket petitions, and H-1B change of 
employer requests also provide revenues of which DHS gets one-third.  The total section 
268(v) receipts for DHS—all of which are presumably going to USCIS in light of the fact 
that USCIS has taken on this law enforcement function—have been estimated by the 
agency itself at $44 million.9  This amount is nowhere accounted for in the fee proposal.  
Instead, despite these revenues, part of the fee increase is justified by allocating $31.3 
million and 170 staff to this same program.  

In any event, a number of the proposed fee-funded activities and operations do not 
involve the provision of adjudications and naturalization services, but are of wider benefit 

4 Washington Times, Feb. 20, 2007  
5 We do, however, believe that those activities were deliberately separated from the adjudications function, 
and more appropriately reside with ICE.  However, as previously mentioned, that is a debate for another 
day. 
6 INA section 286(m) 
7 Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2005, section 426  
8 72 Fed.Reg.4888, 4891 (Feb. 1, 2007). 
9 DHS Budget in Brief, fiscal year 2006, p. 63, fn 2. 

3

 
 
 
 
                                                 
 
to the general public.  Thus Congress, not applicants, should fund them.  Examples 
include payments to the FBI for fingerprint, name, and security checks which benefit 
national security; processing of Freedom of Information Act requests, for which other 
government agencies receive appropriated funds; 100% of the USCIS administration 
costs including headquarters offices and field locations worldwide; and information 
technology.  In addition, funding for Internal Security and Investigative Operations for 
the investigation of misconduct of Federal and contract employees should not come from 
user fees as USCIS proposes.  USCIS should request appropriations to fund the 
investigations of allegations against its own employees. 

Fees should be applied toward the accurate and timely adjudication of benefits to which 
the vast majority of applicants are entitled. Enforcement activities and fraud detection 
should be funded separately and outside the fee account. In the present proposal, they are 
not.   

Immigration is of public benefit, and should be treated as such. 

The rationale for the USCIS user-fee funding system appears to be that immigration and 
naturalization benefits provide value only to the recipients. Yet, many policy makers, 
individuals, and organizations recognize that the contributions of immigrants greatly 
benefit the U.S. as well.  Immigrants reflect the very essence of our society:   seeking 
individual freedom, equality and a better life. 

A recent report published by the Center for an Urban Future10 finds that "During the past 
decade, immigrants have been the entrepreneurial sparkplugs of cities from New York to 
Los Angeles--starting a greater share of new business than native-born residents, 
stimulating growth in sections from food manufacturing to health care, creating loads of 
new jobs, and transforming once-sleepy neighborhoods into thriving commercial 
centers." 

Citing a study by the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation, the report found that "today's 
new Americans still tend to be far more entrepreneurial than native-born residents.  In 
2005, an average of 0.35 percent of the adult immigrant population (or 350 out of 
100,000 adults) created a new business each month, compared to 0.28 percent for the 
native-born population (or 280 out of 100,000 adults). . . Moreover, the percentage of 
immigrants starting business has generally been on the rise. . ." 

As stated by Dan Siciliano, Executive Director, Program in Law, Economics and 
Business at Stanford Law School, in his April 24, 2006 testimony before the Senate 
Judiciary Committee on the economic impact of immigration, "The U.S. economy has 
become increasingly reliant on immigrant workers to fill the growing number of less-
skilled jobs for which a shrinking number of native-born workers are available."  He goes 
on to cite recent economic analysis, including work by Giovanni Peri of the University of 
California, which shows that the United States sees real economic benefits from 

10 "A World of Opportunity," Center for an Urban Future, February 2007. 

4

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
 
immigration such as, "Native-born wages increased between 2.0 and 2.5 percent during 
the 1990s in response to the inflow of immigrant workers. Overall annual growth in the 
Gross Domestic Product is 0.1 percentage point higher as a result of immigration--a 
misleadingly small number that represents billions of dollars in economic output and, 
when compounded across a generation, represents a significant improvement in the 
standard of living of our children and grandchildren." 

We must do a better job welcoming new immigrants rather than closing doors to them.  
Raising the user fees will send the message to foreign nationals that the doors to America 
are closed.    USCIS must open itself to the idea that a federal funding source is now a 
necessity to cover some costs.  AILA understands USCIS' reluctance to rely on an 
uncertain revenue stream due to shifting political realities.  However, with the stakes 
rising for our newest citizens, USCIS can no longer espouse a disdain for requesting help 
from Congress and the taxpayers who benefit from immigration.   

Fee increases will make citizenship and immigration benefits subject to a means test. 

The rule proposes to increase immigration and naturalization benefit application and 
petition fees by what USCIS describes as a weighted average of $174, from an average 
fee of $264 to $438.  If the fee schedule is adopted as proposed, 15 fees would increase 
by amounts between $65 and $200; eight fees would increase by amounts between $200 
and $300; one fee would increase by an amount in the $300 to $400 range; and six fees 
would increase by more than $400. 

USCIS states that it "recognizes that this proposed rule would have an impact on persons 
who file the affected applications and petitions and biometric fees."  However, it offers 
no solution to those least able to pay other than to cite its authority to waive certain fees 
on a case-by-case basis.  Since, as discussed later, USCIS proposes to severely limit the 
circumstances in which it will waive the fee, the waiver is no solution at all. 

The fee increases proposed by USCIS will impose extreme hardship on immigration 
applicants and may result in delaying or creating barriers to naturalization.  According to 
the Migration Policy Institute,11 "High costs for naturalization may be one factor that 
discourages low-income immigrants from naturalizing at the same rates as higher-income 
immigrants.  In 2000-2001, when the fee for adult naturalization was $225, 41 percent of 
lawful permanent residents who were eligible but had not naturalized had incomes 
considered 'low income' (below 200 percent of the poverty level).  Those who had 
recently naturalized had considerably higher incomes -- just 28 percent had low incomes.  
In 2002, there were about 8 million lawful permanent residents (LPRs) who were eligible 
but had not yet obtained citizenship.  The large increase in naturalization fees may now 
further hamper the ability of millions of eligible LPRs to naturalize." 

11 "Immigration Fee Increases in Context," Migration Policy Institute Immigration Facts, February 2007, 
No. 15 

5

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
 
12

T  "First, obtaining citizenship allows immigrants to participate fully in the civic 

Furthermore, "Naturalization of immigrants in the United States brings significant 
benefits for the country," according to a February 2007 report of The Migration Policy 
Institute.T
life of the country by permitting them to vote in elections, run for office, and work in 
many government jobs.  Further, naturalization is a powerful symbolic gesture of 
commitment to the United States.  In taking the oath of citizenship, naturalizing 
immigrants pledge to support the values and laws of the United States and renounce their 
allegiance to any other country.  Naturalizing citizens also commit to serving on a jury if 
called to do so.  Further, in order to naturalize, immigrants must learn a basic level of 
English and study US history and government.  The ability to naturalize provides a strong 
incentive for immigrants to deepen their integration into the country by improving their 
English and learning more about the country of residence."  

The fee increases will effectively impose a means test on the ability of immigrants to 
attain U.S. citizenship, which is contrary to our national values.  The United States was 
built on the principals of equality and inherent value of each individual, both native born 
and immigrant.  If we need immigrants to sustain our economic system and invest in the 
American dream, we should not be erecting monetary barriers to their achieving U.S. 
citizenship. 

UThe Need to Improve Efficiency and Service.  U 

Inconsistency and poor quality in adjudication cause significant. 

Inconsistent and inefficient adjudication are problems in the immigration process, with 
the agency plagued by a widespread perception that it is hostile toward its foreign 
national customers.  These problems result from a number of factors, including the 
issuance of unnecessary Requests for Evidence and erroneous denials which significantly 
increase the costs of adjudication.  The CIS Ombudsman’s 2006 Annual Report to 
Congress stated: 

Lack of standardization in USCIS adjudications among service centers, among 
field offices, and between officers within the same office remains a pervasive and 
serious problem. The Ombudsman’s 2005 Annual Report (at pp. 15-18) 
identified this problem and the Ombudsman has observed little, if any, 
improvement.T

13

T 

AILA agrees.  AILA has seen little improvement in the area of issuance of unnecessary 
Requests for Evidence and erroneous denials.  Continuing problems include: 

•  Boilerplate Requests for Evidence which fail to make reference to evidence submitted 

and evidence lacking. 

12

13

T  Id. 
T CIS Ombudsman, Annual Report 2006, June 26, 2006. 

6

 
P
P
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
P
P
 
 
                                                 
T
P
P
T
P
P
•  Requests for Evidence which demonstrate a failure to adhere to the preponderance of 

evidence standard in adjudication. 

•  Requests for documents already submitted. 

•  Unexplained requests for documents not required by law. 

•  Denials of applications and petitions which state only a conclusion of legal 

ineligibility without any analysis. 

•  Re-adjudication of established facts. 

Increases in user fees are not justified until USCIS can provide its paying customers with 
a feasible plan to eliminate the inconsistent adjudication that significantly impedes 
efficiency.  Such a plan should include not only additional training, but tracking of 
adjudications and a system of holding accountable adjudicators who repeatedly fail to 
properly adjudicate petitions and applications. 

USCIS is plagued by the perception that it is hostile to customers and actively seeks 
to deny an application or petition. 

A review of the many comments to this proposed regulation already submitted shows that 
USCIS has a public relations problem:  immigrants and prospective immigrants believe 
that the agency is actively hostile toward them.   

Adjudication patterns fail to dispel this perception.  A deposition of a senior USCIS 
supervisor taken in the course of federal court litigation several years ago provided a rare 
glimpse into service center adjudication.  This testimony indicated that adjudicators often 
denied cases they “didn’t like” and then after the fact located non-precedent AAO 
decisions to support the decision.T

T  

14

USCIS also displays a disturbing trend in statutory and regulatory interpretation.  
Adjudications officers, often without any guidance from headquarters, consistently apply 
the most restrictive possible interpretation to a given statutory or regulatory provision.  
Fortunately, at times the USCIS management has moderated the agency’s interpretation 
through policy memoranda. 

14

T July 29, 2003 Deposition of Tracey Coleman in Bally Total Fitness Corp. v. INS, U.S. District Ct. Nor. 

Dist. Ill., Eastern Div., No. 02-C-8826  

7

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P
P
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
T
P
P
Examples include: 

•  Adjudication standard for physicians in underserved areas following Schneider v. 

Chertoff, 450 F.3d. 944, 9P

P Circuit2006.T

th

15

T 

•  Exempting periods of stay in H-4 and L-2 status toward H-1B and L-1 limits. Not 

requiring current H-1B status for AC21 benefits.T

16

T 

•  Re-adjudication of previously approved petitions.T

17

T 

•  AC21 Section 103 exemption.T

18

T 

•  Permanent offer of employment.T

19

T 

AILA applauds the flexibility of USCIS to review and revise prior agency thinking on 
many issues.  However, we cannot ignore the failure of the agency to establish and 
enforce reasonable interpretations at the outset, allowing the appearance of hostile 
adjudication to fester before taking remedial action.   

Much of the problem derives from the agency’s inability to promulgate regulations on 
substantive subjects, forcing adjudicators to devise their own policies and principles with 
respect to a wide array of subjects.  This lack of regulations on key subjects deprives 
adjudicators of clear guidance, and contributes to an atmosphere that falls short on 
establishing and implementing an agency-wide commitment to the principles of fair and 
consistent adjudication and respect for the customer.  The result is an utter lack of 
transparency in adjudication standards. 

USCIS’ recent across-the-board investigation of religious worker immigrant petitions 
demonstrates questionable judgment in the allocation of resources as well as a profound 
lack of respect for established legal standards.  Halting all adjudications of a particular 
petition type and requiring site visits for most petitions is a particularly resource-intensive 
endeavor that yields little by way of effective results.  Reports from the handful whose 

15

T Memorandum from Michael Aytes, Assoc. Dir. for Domestic Operations, “Interim guidance for 

adjudicating national interest waiver (NIW) petitions and related adjustment applications for physicians 
serving in medically underserved areas in light of Schneider v. Chertoff,…”  HQ70/6.2 (Jan. 23, 2007). 
16
T Memorandum from Michael Aytes, Assoc. Dir. for Domestic Operations, “Guidance on Determining 
Periods of Admission for Aliens Previously in H-4 or L-2 Status…” HQPRD70/6.2.8, HQPRD70/6.2.12, 
December 5, 2006. 
17

T Memorandum from William Yates, Assoc. Dir. for Operations, “The Significance of a Prior CIS 

Approval of a Nonimmigrant Petition in the Context of a Subsequent Determination Regarding Eligibility 
for Extension of Petition Validity.” HQPRD72/11.3, April 23, 2004.  However, we have seen some 
resistance in the field to actually implementing this guidance. 
18

T Memorandum from Michael Aytes, Assoc. Dir. for Domestic Operations, “Guidance Regarding 

Eligibility for Exemption from the H-1B Cap Based on Section 103 of the American Competitiveness in 
the Twenty First Century Act of 2000,” HQPRD70/23.12, June 6, 2006. 
19

T Memorandum from Michael Aytes, Assoc. Dir. for Domestic Operations, “Guidance on the Requirement 

of a ‘Permanent Offer of Employment’ for Outstanding Professors and Researchers.” June 6, 2006. 

8

 
 
P
P
 
P
P
 
P
P
 
P
P
 
P
P
 
 
 
                                                 
T
P
P
T
P
P
T
P
P
T
P
P
T
P
P
 
petitions have broken out of this freeze enough to get a site visit indicate that the 
investigators lack fundamental knowledge of the standards for religious worker 
qualification or an understanding of what they are seeing.  We understand that there have 
been findings that these types of petitions have a higher than usual incidence of fraud.  
But enforced gridlock is not the answer to the problem. 

These examples feed the perception of an attitude of hostility and suspicion toward its 
customers.  USCIS must establish a plan to effectively evaluate the performance of 
adjudicators and to hold adjudicators accountable for decisions which are not based on 
the established legal standards that USCIS is obligated to uphold.  This starts with 
ensuring that those standards are codified and communicated.  Until USCIS can 
demonstrate a plan to effectively transform itself into an agency dedicated to the fair and 
efficient adjudication of immigration benefits, it should not demand higher payments 
from the customers that it has failed to consistently treat with respect and fair 
adjudication. 

USCIS has also failed to demonstrate a commitment to effective communication 
with its customers. 

AILA is concerned that, while USCIS plans to spend significant resources in the area of 
public communications, the agency has failed to articulate a plan to adequately monitor 
the performance of outside contractors who appear to be its primary public contact with 
its customers.    

AILA is frustrated with the agency’s experiments with contractor-based customer 
communication initiatives thus far.  In its prefatory comments to the proposed regulation, 
USCIS applauds its customer service initiatives, stating that it “…reduces the frequency 
or repeated, redundant applicant and petitioner contact with USCIS employees, thus 
improving USCIS efficiency.”  However, the agency has provided no evidence that these 
efforts have actually improved customer communication.  The “repeated” and 
“redundant” contact by its customers is often the attempt to determine the status of 
applications, petitions and motions delayed beyond normal processing times.  In many 
USCIS offices it simply is no longer possible for an applicant, petitioner or attorney 
representative to speak with an agency employee who actually has the knowledge and 
authority to look up a case and provide a meaningful response to “What’s going on?” 

For example, in late 2006, USCIS initiated an email-based attorney inquiry pilot program 
with the Chicago District Office.  Attorneys are given an email address to which to send 
inquiries.  These inquiries are answered by contractors who are located away from the 
District Office and who are unable to provide any meaningful information in response to 
most inquiries.  A typical response to a long-delayed post-interview Adjustment of Status 
application provides no information: 

Thank you for your e-mail to the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS).  
The following response is provided for your information/action. 

9

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
We have read your inquiry and understand your concern about the processing of your 
client's application.  With the information provided, we have searched our system and it 
shows that the application has been forwarded to the Adjudications Office, and is now 
under review and not yet ready for a decision.  The office that is handling your client's 
case will notify you as soon as they make a resolution on your application. 

Obviously, a response such as the above would result in attorneys and/or foreign 
nationals making repeated inquiries to USCIS to try to obtain some meaningful 
information regarding the delays in processing cases.  And repeated responses from the 
contractors involve the expenditures of more USCIS funds, creating a vicious cycle of 
waste and inefficiency.  

The proposed regulations specify that $43 million is budgeted for the National Customer 
Service Center contract.  The shift to providing customer information through the 
contractor-staffed National Customer Service Center began in earnest in June 2003 and 
replaced the previous system in which INS information officers staffed telephone lines 
and answered customers’ questions.  National Customer Service Center contractors 
receive minimal training and answer customers using “canned” scripts.  The Government 
Accountability Office published a report dated June 200520 criticizing the USCIS in its 
evaluation of contractor performance, and we question whether the proposed budgeted 
cost of $43 million is an effective expenditure of funds to provide information to the 
public.  AILA does not understand why USCIS customers should be asked to pay for 
private contractors whose only function appears to be to provide non-responsive 
information in a pleasant fashion. 

The USCIS trend of outsourcing its communications functions is of serious concern to 
AILA.  This outsourcing demonstrates a commitment only to construct a façade of better 
customer communication, while meaningful communication continues to decline. 

AILA supports the agency’s efforts to provide basic information through the internet, and  
applauds the agency’s interest in customer feedback on its online communications 
initiatives.  However, even these worthwhile endeavors have been the subject of wasteful 
ineffectiveness.  On November 1, 2006, USCIS rolled out a “new and improved” website, 
intended to serve as a “one stop shop” for all U.S. immigration and citizenship 
information.  We do not understand why USCIS determined to spend its limited resources 
to redesign the website, when the old website contained a wealth of resource information, 
was well designed and easy to navigate, and was very customer-friendly. However, since 
the roll-out of the new website, numerous broken links, missing information, and other 
problems have been discovered and reported to the USCIS webmaster.  Many AILA 
members have also noted that the new website is much more difficult to navigate than the 
old website, and that various information that had been included in the old website is no 
longer available, or at least no longer able to be found. The proposed regulations do not 
indicate how much of the IEFA account already has been expended on the website 
redesign or how much of the $228 million will be allocated to fix problems on the 
website.   We strongly urge that this information be disclosed to the public. 

20  U.S. Government Accountability Office, “Immigration Services.  Better Contracting Practices Needed at 
Call Centers” (GAO-05-526, June 2005).  

10

 
 
 
 
                                                 
 
USCIS must not increase costs for biometrics and security clearances without 
corresponding plans to improve processing. 

AILA is also very concerned about the proposed increase in the biometric fee from $70 to 
$80.  Currently, security clearances are not being completed in a timely manner for a 
number of I-485 and N-400 cases, and there is no indication that USCIS intends to take 
steps to resolve the situation. 

The “Capture Biometrics” costs are budgeted at $174 million, or close to 9% of the total 
processing activity costs.  This amount includes operational costs for the Application 
Support Centers of $74 million for outside contractors and $12.5 million for USCIS 
employees as managers, as well as $63 million paid to the FBI to conduct fingerprint and 
name checks.21   In addition, USCIS is requesting an additional $12.4 million to pay 
increased costs to the FBI for background checks, to cover the projected increases in N-
400 and I-485 filings22, to expand biometrics to I-131 (refugee travel and re-entry 
documents) and I-751s, and to enhance FBI name check services.   

Currently, biometric fees are paid separately from regular filing fees and are assessed at 
$70.  Of this $70, our understanding is that approximately $20 to $30 is actually paid to 
the FBI per case to conduct fingerprint and name checks.23    USCIS is proposing to 
increase this amount to $80, a 14% increase, and the only explanation provided is that the 
projected biometric workload volume will decrease and that enhanced name check 
services will be provided by the FBI.  USCIS provides no details as to what FBI name 
check enhancements are being contemplated or how this will increase the costs for 
biometric processing and security clearances.  Without further details, USCIS has not 
provided satisfactory explanations sufficient to justify such a fee increase. 

Further, in return for this fee increase, USCIS has not proposed any improvement in 
services or processing times.  Significant numbers of I-485 and N-400 cases have been 
languishing for years while awaiting security clearances.  In the past, the  policy was to 
request expedites from the FBI on these cases if a mandamus lawsuit was filed in federal 

21   Using USCIS’ projections, $63 million will be paid to the FBI to conduct approximately 2.196 million 
background  checks,  which  can  be  extrapolated  as  a  cost  of  approximately  $28.69  each.      There  is  no 
indication as to how the remaining $51.31 of the proposed $80.00 biometrics fee is to be expended, other 
than  the  Application  Support  Center  operational  costs,  which  can  be  estimated  to  cost  $39.39  per  case 
($86.5 million for 2.196 million background checks). 
22   The proposed regulations are inconsistent as to which form types are projected to increase and which 
are  projected  to  decrease  in  volume.    In  Section  IV.E.3,  USCIS  states  that  N-400  and  I-90  filings  are 
projected to increase and I-485 filings are expected to decrease.  However, later at Section V.A., USCIS 
states  that  N-400  and  I-485  filings  are  expected  to  increase,  while  I-90  filings  are  projected  to  decrease.  
We are not clear as to which information is correct. 
23   See Note 21, supra.  According to an Office of the Inspector General Report, “A Review of USCIS’ 
Alien  Security  Checks”  (OIG-06-06,  Nov.  2005),  FBI  fingerprint  checks  cost  approx.  $16.79  in  FY2004 
($31.9 million for 1.9 million checks) and FBI name checks cost $4.00 each in FY2004 ($6.0 million for 
1.5 million names).  OIG Report at 3. 

11

 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
 
court, but these expedites require USCIS to pay additional fees to the FBI.24  However, 
recently, USCIS announced a new policy that it will no longer request expedites from the 
FBI where the only reason to expedite is that a mandamus action has been filed.25  This 
means that the backlog on obtaining security clearances on these cases will continue to 
increase, unjustifiably preventing larger and larger numbers of individuals from obtaining 
lawful permanent residence or U.S. citizenship. It also will increase overall costs for 
USCIS in the form of costs for defending these suits and paying EAJA fees. 

Further, we are deeply concerned about the national security implications of these delays.  
These adjustment and naturalization applicants are currently in the U.S., but no actual 
determination has been made as to whether they pose a threat to our country.  Given that 
many of these background checks have not been processed for several years, there is a 
real danger when those individuals who indeed are a threat are able to remain in the U.S.  
For the sake of our national security, every effort should be made to expedite security 
clearances on all filings, so that appropriate action may be taken against any individuals 
who pose a threat to the U.S. and so that individuals who pose no threat may receive the 
benefits for which they have applied.   

Biometric fees should not be increased unless the USCIS develops reasonable and 
specific procedures to reduce the wait time for security clearances on I-485 and N-400 
applications that have been pending for more than six months.  In addition, AILA 
strongly urges the Administration to request appropriations from Congress to fund the 
security clearance structure and improve processing times for obtaining background 
checks.  This is a matter of the national interest that should funded by all Americans, who 
will benefit from a more efficient system to identify and move against potential terrorists 
and criminals.   

An increase in fees is inappropriate without a corresponding commitment to quality 
and service. 

In response to past fee increase proposals, USCIS (and INS before it) was consistently 
told by the public that it should not increase fees until it has decreased its backlog.  In 
June 2004, to much fanfare, USCIS announced an effort to “eliminate” its backlog by the 
end of fiscal year 2006 by reducing its backlog to six months’ wait. 26 And sure enough, 
in September 2006, as fiscal year 2006 was ending, USCIS declared itself almost there.27  
Now, as one justification for this proposed increase, USCIS indicates in its proposal that 
it has reduced processing times to six months.  However, there are several problems with 
these assertions. 

24   “USCIS may pay the FBI double to ‘expedite’ up to a few hundred FBI name checks per month.”  OIG 
Report at 24. 
25   USCIS Update dated February 20, 2007, available on USCIS website at 
http://www.uscis.gov/files/pressrelease/ExpediteNameChk022007.pdf. 
26 In fact, six months is hardly an “elimination” of the backlog.  Nevertheless, six months would have been 
a significant improvement over the state of affairs in June 2004. 
27 USCIS, at that time, changed how it counted its backlog, and announced that it had reduced its backlog 
of 3.8 million cases to 140,000.   See USCIS News Release, “USCIS Announces Elimination of 
Naturalization Backlog,” Sept. 15, 2006. 

12

 
 
 
 
                                                 
 
To its credit, and with the assistance of Congressionally appropriated funds, USCIS did 
make significant inroads with respect to its backlog.  But did it eliminate—even by the 
rather broad terms by which the agency defined elimination—the backlog?  Hardly. 

Instead of including applications and petitions on file and awaiting adjudication, it 
decided to drop from its count any filing that was not “ready to adjudicate.”  While this is 
a fair exclusion for those adjustment of status applications that cannot currently be 
adjudicated because the visa numbers retrogressed, it is highly misleading to exclude 
others, such as those applications delayed due to security checks or Requests for 
Evidence.  These are all applications that still need to be adjudicated and, if the system 
were working properly, would be ripe for adjudication in a relatively short time frame. 

Further, an examination of USCIS’ current processing times shows that processing times 
are not in fact the claimed six months or less for a number of key applications. In other 
cases, even if USCIS is at six months, this represents an increase over prior processing 
times or is only a partial representation of actual processing. For example: 

1.  I-129F – The CSC reports that K-1 applications are taking six months; however 

this is actually an increase in processing over relatively recent history when K-1s 
were adjudicated in four months or less. 

2.  I-751 - The CSC reports that I-751 applications are taking six months but this 

does not take into account the six-month or more wait that I-751 applicants face 
once the service center forwards the applications to the local office for interview. 
Both of these times are well beyond the statutorily mandated 90-day processing 
time. 

3.  I-129 for all types of H-1B petitions – NSC and TSC report a nine month 

processing time even for extensions.  Since these service centers have not been 
responsible for these types of filings since May 2006, they have not worked on 
reducing the cases that remain in this category. 

4.  1-131 – NSC and TSC report times in excess of four months and, again, while 

that is less than six months, it represents an increase in processing times over the 
recent past for a straightforward ancillary benefit. 

5.  I-140 – NSC reports processing times ranging from seven to nine months while 

VSC reports ten months on those I-140s remaining with it. NSC processing times 
are greater than TSC while VSC again appears not to be working its backlog. 
6.  Asylee adjustments – NSC reports three years while TSC reports four years. 
7.  Employment-based I-485s – NSC reports eight months while VSC reports nine 

months on those remaining at VSC. NSC processing times are greater than TSC, 
and VSC again appears not to be working its backlog. 

As should be evident, these processing times do not actually reflect the claimed 
processing improvements when compared to backlogs under prior fee structures.  These 
data also appear to be inconsistent with the agency’s posted Q&A Responses to the 
proposed fee increase that state that these fee increases will perform as promised this time 
because “tomorrow’s customers are not being asked to pay higher fees to allow us to 

13

 
 
 
 
 
 
process yesterday’s backlogged cases.” Given the lack of progress on a number of 
different applications and existing backlogs, this statement does not appear to be entirely 
accurate. It also seems inconsistent with the claim in the same set of Q&As that the fee 
increase was purposefully delayed until service levels improved to the six-month goals 
set forth by the White House.  

In addition, these processing statistics make clear that how efficiently someone’s 
application is processed has a lot to do with which service center adjudicates the 
application. Given these concerns, any additional funds should go first to adjudications of 
files in the queue and not enforcement activities that properly belong in ICE. 

USCIS’ goals for improving processing are remarkably un-ambitious. 

USCIS has indicated that, with the fee increase, it hopes to increase efficiency by 20% by 
the end of fiscal year 2009.  When measured against the proportion and immediate effect 
of the fee increase, this is a very small margin of improvement in a fairly lengthy frame 
of time.  When measured in terms of actual days that a given processing time will be 
shortened, the improvement is negligible.  Assuming a best case scenario of six months 
for processing every petition, 20% means that an I-140 that currently takes 180 days may 
be reduced to 146 days two and one-half years from now. Assuming actual I-140 
processing times at NSC of 8 months, something that currently takes about 240 days may 
take 192 days. This latter scenario means processing for that benefit will not even meet 
the currently stated six-month processing goal.  

Some fees are increasing three- or four-fold, or on average 96%, as Representative Zoe 
Lofgren, Chair of the House Judiciary Committee, Subcommittee on Immigration, 
Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security and International Law, has stated. Such minimal 
efficiency improvements do not appear to justify the dramatic increases in fees.  

Calculation of Costs. 

USCIS has not provided sufficient explanation for its calculations of processing 
costs.  

In its proposed rulemaking, USCIS states that it has utilized a “new cost model” which 
will allow “more complete funding of existing services” based on “specific cost 
allocation methods.”  While AILA applauds USCIS’ efforts to use better data to project 
its costs, we are concerned that some of the data utilized do not appear to make sense, 
and we find that USCIS has not provided an adequate explanation on how it has 
calculated the proposed new fees.  This, in turn, calls into question whether USCIS has 
yet to accurately calculate its overall actual adjudication costs. 

In determining the projected costs of processing applications, USCIS begins with an 
assumption that the volume of filings for Forms I-129, I-130, I-131, I-140, I-539, I-687, 
I-765, and I-90 will decrease by 391,824 and that the volume of I-485 and N-400 filings 
will increase by 11,049.  However, USCIS provides no trend data to enable us to 

14

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
determine if these assumptions are justified.  Indeed, our members’ own observations of 
trends in their practices would indicate different conclusions.  If USCIS’ assumptions are 
not correct, then all of its calculations of processing costs will also be incorrect. 

Further, USCIS purports to calculate processing activity costs from the various forms’ 
“completion rates,” defined in the regulation as the level of effort expended to adjudicate 
an application.  However, the completion rate data presented in Table 9 make no sense. 
First, many form types include completion rates at the local offices, service centers and 
the National Benefits Center.  It is not clear if the completion times in various offices are 
intended to be added up to provide a total completion rate for a form type, or if the 
completion times in different offices are intended to stand independently.  Or stated 
another way, does this mean that, for example, an I-130 family-based immigrant petition 
takes an average of .86 hours to process at a local office, .35 hours at a service center, 
AND .65 hours at the National Benefits Center, for a grand total of 1.86 hours?  Or does 
this mean that when I-130s are processed by a particular office, they can take an average 
of .86 hours in a local office, .35 at a service center, OR .65 hours at the National 
Benefits Center? 

Second, Table 9 lists processing times for forms in locations that do not process those 
form types.  For instance, local offices do not process I-129s (.09 hours listed), I-129Fs 
(4.98 hours listed), I-140s (2.00 hours listed) or I-539s (1.32 hours listed), but local office 
completion rates are listed for those form types.  Similarly, N-470s are filed and 
processed at local offices; why is 1.91 listed as a completion rate for service centers?  N-
400s are filed at service centers, but no completion rate data is provided for service center 
processing.  Additionally, given that local offices no longer process I-140s, it is simply 
not credible that local offices spend an average of 2 hours processing I-140s, when 
service centers only spend 52 minutes on I-140s.   

At Section X, USCIS discusses a threefold increase in the level of effort to adjudicate I-
140s, I-129Fs, I-485s, waiver applications, N-400s, I-751s and I-817s, claiming that most 
of the increases are “associated with the additional time devoted to the expansion of 
background checks.”  However, no additional background checks are conducted on I-
140s or I-129Fs, other than the standard IBIS checks that are conducted on all form 
types.28  No reasonable explanation is provided to justify the threefold increase in level of 
effort for I-140s, I-129Fs or I-751s, and applicants should not be forced to pay increased 
fees due to USCIS inefficiencies in processing these application types.  It is time that 
USCIS took a reasoned approach to when, where and how it conducts background 
checks, lest it complete its current journey toward complete immobilization. 

Additionally, USCIS is proposing to increase I-765 applications for employment 
authorization from $180 to $340, a whopping 89% increase.  These fees are somehow 
determined based on the completion rate data for I-765s, which lists .31 hours for I-765s 
in local offices, .19 in service centers, and .16 in the National Benefits Center.  Effective 
August 2006, USCIS implemented a new policy to no longer issue interim work 

28 We do not understand why there would even be an IBIS check on I-140s, as they do not, in and of 
themselves, convey a benefit and thus are not deniable for inadmissibility. 

15

 
 
 
 
                                                 
 
authorization cards at local offices, 29 which means that the completion rate of .31 hours 
in the local offices should be eliminated and the processing costs for I-765s should be 
significantly reduced.  In light of this significant change in policy, the processing activity 
unit costs and filing fees for I-765s should be re-calculated and reduced. 

Further, USCIS does not provide any reasonable explanation as to how the completion 
rate data provided in Table 9 is then utilized to determine the “Make Determination” 
Processing Activity Unit Costs By Application/Petition in Table 10.  The only 
explanation provided is that the “Make Determination” processing activity unit cost 
generally follows the premise that the more complex the application/petition is to 
adjudicate, the higher the unit costs.  However, the data for “Make Determination” costs 
do not appear to correspond in any logical manner with the completion rate data.  

For instance, why are the “Make Determination” costs for I-360 calculated at $2,268, a 
figure much higher than other form types, when the effort levels are not significantly 
higher than for other form types?  As another example, why are I-765 “Make 
Determination” costs ($83) significantly higher than I-90 costs ($34), while I-765 
completion rates (.31/.19/.16)30 are much lower than I-90 completion rates (.93/.50/NA)?  
Why are I-102 ($104) and I-129 ($104) “Make Determination” costs the same, when their 
completion rates are very different (.61/.30/.39 as compared to .09/.40/NA)? 

From the information provided, we are not persuaded that USCIS has adequately justified 
its need to increase filing fees to the extent proposed.  The completion rate data makes no 
sense in light of which offices process particular application types, and USCIS has not 
provided a reasonable explanation as to how it has calculated “Make Determination” 
costs from the completion rate data.  USCIS is not justified in raising the filing fees at 
this time, unless it provides more accurate data and more complete explanations as to 
how it has calculated processing costs and has proven that it indeed understands its own 
overall costs of adjudicating applications and petitions. 

Fee increases do not correspond to projected IEFA cost increases. 

According to the data provided by USCIS, the total IEFA budget is anticipated to 
increase by 32% (from $1.76 billion to $2.329 billion) from fy2007 to fy2008/2009, 
including adjustments for inflation and additional resource requirements.  However, the 
weighted average application fee increase is 96%, or at best, 66% taking into 
consideration the consolidation of interim benefits into I-485 applications.  Even though 
USCIS states that these fee increases are based on a “new cost model,” we find it 
extremely hard to fathom how a 32% budget increase could result in a 66% or greater fee 
increase.   

29   Memorandum from Michael Aytes, Assoc. Dir. for Domestic Operations, “Elimination of Form I-688B, 
Employment Authorization Card,” (Aug. 16, 2006). 
30  Completion rates listed for local office/service center/National Benefits Center. 

16

 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
 
In its proposed rulemaking, USCIS has not proposed any enhanced service levels.  
USCIS Director Gonzalez testified before the House Judiciary Committee on February 
14, 2007, that the proposed fee increase reflects USCIS’ “commitment to a projected 4% 
increase in productivity for adjustment of status cases, and a 2% increase in productivity 
for all other products.”  In other words, USCIS is committing to provide a 2-4% increase 
in productivity in exchange for a 66% or greater increase in fees.  That is utterly 
unacceptable. 

Changes in Fee Waivers. 

USCIS needs to retain the possibility of waivers in more categories. 

All of USCIS’ proposed filing fees are based on an assumption that fee waiver requests 
will hold steady from fy2006 levels.  USCIS acknowledges that “the higher fees proposed 
in this rule would likely mean more customers will apply for fee waivers” and that the 
adjudication of a fee waiver request has a significant associated cost.  The solution that 
USCIS proposes to address this problem is to preclude fee waiver requests from being 
filed for most form types, on the grounds that a need-based waiver request contradicts the 
basic benefit/service being requested.  USCIS proposes to permit fee waiver requests 
only for Forms I-90, I-751, I-765, I-817, N-300, N-336, N-400, N-470, N-565, N-600, N-
600K and I-290B.   

However, USCIS has not taken into account that there are other form types, or categories 
within form types, for which fee waivers would be extremely appropriate and not 
inconsistent with the benefit requested.  These include:  I-131 applications for re-entry 
permits or refugee travel documents, I-485 applications for asylees or VAWA 
beneficiaries (for whom petition fees are proposed to be automatically waived but, 
curiously, all prospect of waiving the much higher adjustment of status fee is proposed to 
be eliminated), and Special Immigrant Juvenile petitions.  USCIS should expand the list 
of forms eligible for fee waivers to include these types of applications. 

Inclusion of Interim Benefits with I-485 Adjustment Applications. 

In its proposed regulations, USCIS intends to increase the I-485 adjustment application 
fee from $325 to $905 ($805 for children under age 14).  Included in this fee increase will 
be interim benefits for employment authorization and advance parole.  However, 
nowhere in the regulations does USCIS make clear how it intends to process these 
interim benefits.  Indeed, USCIS states that “this proposed rule anticipates (but is not 
dependent on) consolidating the Form I-131 and Form I-765 into the Form I-485.” 
(emphasis added).  If the I-131 and I-765 forms are not consolidated into the I-485, then 
USCIS will have greatly underestimated its costs for processing I-131s and I-765s, and it 
is unclear where additional resources will be obtained to cover these costs. 

If USCIS is able to consolidate the I-131 and I-765 into the I-485, many questions remain 
unanswered as to how this will be accomplished.  Will employment authorization and 

17

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
advance parole be granted incident to status, and somehow issued to applicants with the 
I-485 receipt notice?  Will employment authorization cards with anti-counterfeiting 
measures still be issued?  Will the I-485 receipt notice contain language permitting 
adjustment applicants to work and/or travel?  What length of time will be granted for the 
ancillary employment authorization and advance parole?  Will they be issued for 
Duration of Status, for a specific period of time based on anticipated processing times, or 
using some other formula?  How will USCIS address situations in which the I-485 
application is delayed for years pending security clearances – how will adjustment 
applicants continue to maintain their employment authorization and/or ability to travel?  
How will USCIS address the continued need for I-131s and I-765s to be filed by 
individuals with already-pending I-485 adjustment applications?  Will they need to 
continue to file annual applications, or will they be issued documents similar to those 
issued for new adjustment applicants?  The costs to USCIS could vary significantly 
depending on the procedures chosen by USCIS to consolidate interim benefits into I-
485s,  and we are greatly concerned that USCIS has not taken this into consideration. 

Additionally, USCIS makes the assumption that all I-485 applicants wish to obtain 
interim benefits.  However, this is not the case for many groups of individuals.  For 
instance, children under the age of 16 generally do not request employment authorization 
and have no need for such a benefit.  Similarly, individuals currently holding valid H-1B 
or L-1 status frequently do not need employment authorization or advance parole, as they 
are permitted to work and travel using their existing nonimmigrant status. Additionally, 
USCIS persists in taking the position that individuals who have applied under 245(i) 
and/or are subject to unlawful presence bars cannot travel on advance parole without 
triggering the bars.  USCIS is effectively forcing all of these individuals to pay increased 
fees for interim benefits that they do not want and cannot use. 

USCIS’ projections for I-485 applications assume a workload increase from 606,425 to 
613,400 applications.  However, due to the significant price for filing adjustment 
applications, many I-485 applicants with “clean” cases or applicants who do not require 
interim benefits may opt to process their applications for permanent residence through 
U.S. consulates overseas due to cost concerns.  Currently, the Department of State 
immigrant visa application fee is $335, which is significantly lower than the proposed I-
485 fee of $905 ($805 for child under age 14) and biometric fee of $80.  For a typical 
family of four (two adults and two children under age 14), this would add up to a total 
difference of $2240 ($3580 for adjustment as compared to $1340 for consular 
processing).  This would result in USCIS being left to adjudicate a larger percentage of 
complicated or problematic cases than anticipated, which could significantly distort any 
cost projections for this case type. 

18

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regulatory Reviews. 

USCIS failed to properly evaluate the impact of the regulation on small businesses. 

We are concerned that USCIS failed to properly evaluate the effect of the increased fees 
on small entities under both the Regulatory Flexibility Act and the Small Business 
Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act. As a preliminary matter, the statistical sample, just 
over two-tenths of one percent of applicants, may be too small to give an accurate picture 
of the impact given the immense variety one sees in businesses classified as “small.” 
Second, even assuming the sample is statistically sufficient, we are concerned that USCIS 
did not consider that many of these employers, as an inducement to the employee to take 
up the employment, pay the fees associated with the adjustment of status. USCIS failed to 
consider that these employers therefore would be impacted by the extremely dramatic 
increase in the cost of filing a Form I-485 both in raw financial terms and in terms of 
being able to attract and retain the best qualified workers.   

Conclusion. 

The fee proposal is flawed in many respects, oversteps USCIS’ authority regarding what 
operations are funded by fees, and creates a social impact that could prove damaging to 
the interests of the United States.  We urge USCIS to seek appropriated funding for non-
adjudicatory functions, to improve its efficiency and service, and to provide a more 
reasoned explanation as to how it calculated its costs.  The proposal needs to be radically 
overhauled before it is made final. 

Sincerely, 

AMERICAN IMMIGRATION LAWYERS ASSOCIATION 

19