Linda Melville 
241 Solano Dr, NE 
Albuquerque, NM 87108-1041 

March 12, 2007 

USCIS Comments 

Dear USCIS Comments: 

I am writing to you from the University of New Mexico as an international 
educator in opposition to the February 1, 2007, proposed rule "Adjustment 
of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit Application and Petition Fee 
Schedule."  The proposed fee increases are so exorbitant they will act as 
a disincentive for international students and scholars to study and work 
in the United States.  USCIS must reconsider the role of appropriated 
funds to meet the administrative needs of the agency.  I ask that fees be 
reduced to the actual cost of processing the application or petition. 

In the fourteen years that I have been an advisor to international 
students and scholars in the US (five of these at the University of New 
Mexico), I have witnessed a dramatic increase in immigration processing 
fees which has been accompanied, in most cases, not by a decrease in 
processing times and more efficient service, but by exactly the opposite.  
For example, in 1993, an application for an Employment Authorization 
Document (EAD card/I-765 application) cost $15 and involved a one to two 
hour-long excursion downtown (including wait time in line) after which, 
the student could walk away with the card in hand.  Today, students must 
pay $180 dollars and endure a complicated mail-in process involving a two 
to three month wait for the card, during which time they cannot travel 
freely out of the US and return nor can they begin employment.  The fee 
increases currently being proposed by DHS would have these students paying 
$340 dollars for the same complicated and lengthy mail-in process. 

The net affect of these endless fee increases is to discourage 
international students and scholars from coming to the US and to our 
institutions to the detriment of US higher education and to our society 
has a whole.  While I understand the need for security measures, the 
increasingly cumbersome and costly bureaucracy imposed upon international 
educational exchange harms national security interests. 

International students and scholars, and campus officials that employ 
them, file tens of thousands of petitions and applications with USCIS 
annually, including: 

   •The near-doubling of the I-765 fee for international students in F 
status to apply for work authorization for Optional Practical Training, 
from $180 to $340. 

   •The increases in the fees required in connection with change of status 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
from F to H-1B, including the increase from $200 to $300 (a 50 percent 
increase) in the I-539 application to change nonimmigrant status for 
dependents and the increase from $190 to $320 (a 68 percent increase) in 
the I-129 petition for nonimmigrant worker.  These fees are on top of the 
required data collection and fraud prevention fee, which is not part of 
the fee schedule. 

   •The huge increases in the fees required to adjust status from H-1B to 
legal permanent resident (green-card status), including:  the 
near-tripling of the I-485 application fee for permanent residence, from 
$325 to $905; and the increase from $195 to $475 (143 percent) in the 
I-140 immigrant petition for alien worker.  (The proposed increase in the 
I-485 fee is partly offset by the fact that it is accompanied by the 
elimination of additional filing fees for work authorization and for 
permission to re-enter after traveling abroad.  However, the inclusion of 
those fees in the proposed new I-485 fee means that they would have to be 
paid even by those who do not expect to require the benefit.) 

Many colleges and universities pay the USCIS fees for the green card 
process for the person being hired.  It is less common for the fees for 
the family members, such as spouse and children, to be paid for by the 
colleges or universities.  The increases in fees will have a severe impact 
on families.  

Apart from the direct impact of the excessive fees, they are contrary to 
clearly expressed U.S. policies.  The President, the Secretary of State, 
and indeed the Secretary of Homeland Security have expressed clearly and 
often the high value that the United States places on attracting 
international students and scholars to this country.  The United States 
reaps immeasurable benefits—for our foreign policy, our students' 
education, our economy, our competitiveness, and our public diplomacy—from 
attracting the best and brightest minds and the next generation of world 
leaders to America's educational institutions. 

Regrettably, the increased fees will reinforce the inefficiencies and 
dysfunctionalities USCIS inherited from INS when the Department of 
Homeland Security was created.  The solution to correcting the systemic 
problems that plague the agency is not to keep raising fees in a futile 
attempt to finance a twenty-first century agency.  Unfortunately, to meet 
its statutory requirements, USCIS is turning to its only steady source of 
funding, its filers and petitioners, to finance the required modernization 
of its systems.  While that is understandable, it is not acceptable as a 
matter of public policy, because it prices statutory benefits out of the 
reach of those who need them.  

The fact that USCIS operates on a fee-funded basis creates a built-in 
incentive to subsidize unnecessary work.  This creates an incentive to 
requiring USCIS approval for things; that way, you can charge a fee for 
processing the request, which provides necessary income to finance your 
broader operations.  The I-765 fee for Optional Practical Training is a 
classic example.  It used to be possible for school officials designated 
by the INS to approve OPT in accordance with agency regulations.  The 
benefits of reinstituting and expanding this process speak for themselves: 
 no application, no processing, no fee, one less task to be performed by 
the agency, more time to devote to what the agency really needs to do.  
There is no obvious public policy reason for USCIS to require agency 

 
 
 
 
 
approval for OPT today.  With the Student and Exchange Visitor Information 
System (SEVIS) now fully in place, it would be easy to devolve this 
responsibility back onto the schools.  Yet the cost of processing this 
unnecessary application process continues to drive up the fee.  

While I understand that USCIS is permitted by law to recover the full cost 
of its services through fees, and indeed has no other option so long as 
Congress is unwilling to appropriate funds for the operation of the 
agency, I ask that the fees be reduced to the actual cost of processing 
the application or petition.  Meanwhile, I ask Congress to step up to its 
responsibility for fixing the untenable situation that drives these fee 
increases. 

Thank you for the opportunity to comment. 

Sincerely, 

Linda Melville 
505-232-0666 

This message has been verified by CapwizXC as authentic and sent by this 
individual.  Authentication ID: [19lijpp9] 

Changed message text: 21.8%