Leanne Seedorff 
941 Fairway Lane SE 
Iowa City, IA 52240-9049 

March 9, 2007 

USCIS Comments 

Dear USCIS Comments: 

I am writing to you as an international educator in opposition to the 
February 1, 2007, proposed rule "Adjustment of the Immigration and 
Naturalization Benefit Application and Petition Fee Schedule."  I ask that 
fees be reduced to the actual cost of processing the application or 
petition.  

I believe I have a fairly accurate insight into this issue.  Not only am I 
an international educator at the University of Iowa, but I recently 
completed a year serving as Student Regulatory Ombudsperson - a volunteer 
liaison that helped facilitate communication between the USCIS Service 
Center in Lincoln, NE and international educators in the states of Iowa, 
Minnesota, Missouri, North Dakota, and South Dakota.  Whenever 
international advisers experienced difficulties with students' 
applications for employment or changes of immigration status, I would try 
to communicate with the Service Center to help resolve the issue. 

At the University of Iowa we assist 2-300 students each year to obtain 
Optional Practical Training (OPT) authorization for USCIS, which permits 
them to gain up to one year of practical experience in their fields of 
study following graduation.  The cost of filing the I-765 application to 
obtain OPT is currently $180 and is proposed to be raised to $340.  

The population of international students who would be affected by this 
already face many financial challenges.  Unlike American students, they 
are not eligible for financial aid, cannot take out loans without a U.S. 
cosigner, and are unable to access all of the employment options available 
to American students.  Many are supported by family funds from their home 
countries, and in many cases there are considerable imbalances between 
home currencies and the U.S. dollar.  In short, an extra $160 at the time 
of the OPT application can be a considerable amount for many of these 
students, and the means to scrape together this additional amount can be 
very limited.  There could very well be many students who may not be able 
to afford to apply for OPT and the practical experience it brings. 

The same applies to the proposed increase for the I-539, which our 
students and prospective students use to apply for a change of immigration 
status, usually to move from a status that does not legally permit them to 
be students, to F-1 or J-1 student status.  The fee increase would be from 
$200 to $300 - a smaller increase than that for the I-765 mentioned above. 
 However, many of the individuals who utilize this change of status are in 
an immigration status where finances are even more prohibitive and there 
is no legal way to work, thus it makes it even more difficult to come up 
with the funds to cover the fee. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Aside from the impact these fees will have on our students and visiting 
scholars, I am concerned about efficiency and accountability at USCIS 
Service Centers.  During my tenure as the Regulatory Ombuds liaison with 
the Nebraska Service Center, I saw numerous instances where application 
adjudication times are exorbitantly long.  This is particularly true when 
it comes to I-539 change of status applications.  It is the norm that such 
an application can take several months, on average 4-5, to be adjudicated. 
 Sometimes longer.  This problem is compounded when we consider that many 
students cannot legally begin their academic programs until they have 
gained F-1 or J-1 student status.  It is not uncommon for students who 
were admitted to begin a program one semester have to defer their 
admission to a subsequent semester because they are still waiting to have 
the appropriate status approved. 

Time is also an issue with the I-765 applications for OPT employment 
authorization.  Current processing times at the Nebraska Service Center 
are 3 months.  Students are not allowed to submit an OPT application more 
than 4 months before completion of their program.  Thus we habitually 
encourage students to begin the application process 3.5-4 months before 
graduation just to ensure they have sufficient time to receive the 
authorization.  However, many students - particularly those in graduate 
programs - may not know until relatively late in the semester if they will 
be ready to complete their programs and graduate, and thus may not know if 
they are eligible for OPT until a month or two before graduation.  

I do commend the Nebraska Service Center in that for the last few years 
they have been willing to offer a courtesy "expedited processing" service 
for students who happen to have job offers at the time they apply for OPT. 
 This has helped many students get their OPT processed more quickly.  
However, these situations are generally reserved for jobs that would start 
in 4-6 weeks from the time of application, and still can take 6-8 weeks to 
be adjudicated. 

The OPT situation is further complicated by the fact that USCIS revoked a 
popular fall-back authorization known as the "interim Employment 
Authorization Document."  Until Fall 2006, students who had OPT 
applications pending for 90 days could at least go in person to a local 
USCIS office and obtain a temporary, or interim, OPT authorization card to 
permit them to begin working while they were waiting for the permanent 
12-month card to be adjudicated.  Many students had taken advantage of 
this because of the amount of time it traditionally takes for applications 
to be adjudicated.  As of Fall 2006 this option is no longer available. 

Along with my concern for the processing times goes hand in hand a concern 
for the ability for international educators and advisers to communicate 
with the Service Centers handling their applications.  Again in my role as 
Regulatory Ombudsperson, I would frequently attempt to help clarify and 
fix errors made by the Service Center during adjudication.  At times the 
communication process operated very smoothly and efficiently.  And having 
the Service Centers create email addresses dedicated to schools and 
universities was a helpful step.  But the efficiency and effectiveness of 
these communications are entirely dependent on the individuals directly 
involved.  I can say that I found the Nebraska Service Center contact for 
I-765 issues among the most responsive, helpful, and efficient staff 
members that I've ever worked with.  I could feel fairly secure I would 

 
 
 
 
 
receive a fast response and that the cases I submitted would be rectified 
speedily.  I cannot say the same for the I-539 contact at the same Service 
Center.  It was not uncommon for emails from me or other educators to be 
completely ignored, or for errors to go uncorrected, even after multiple 
communication attempts over weeks or months.  Nor is this the norm for 
only the Nebraska Service Center.  It is absolutely unacceptable to have 
communication handled in such a manner. 

Hence I am extremely concerned that these fees will be increased, yet 
processing times and poor communication will continue to be the norm.  
This will mean our students and scholars are paying extra money with no 
benefit whatsoever to them. 

The fact that USCIS operates on a fee-funded basis creates a built-in 
incentive to subsidize unnecessary work.  This creates an incentive to 
requiring USCIS approval for things; that way, you can charge a fee for 
processing the request, which provides necessary income to finance your 
broader operations.  The I-765 fee for Optional Practical Training is a 
classic example.  It used to be possible for school officials designated 
by the INS to approve OPT in accordance with agency regulations.  The 
benefits of reinstituting and expanding this process speak for themselves: 
 no application, no processing, no fee, one less task to be performed by 
the agency, more time to devote to what the agency really needs to do.  
There is no obvious public policy reason for USCIS to require agency 
approval for OPT today.  With the Student and Exchange Visitor Information 
System (SEVIS) now fully in place, it would be easy to devolve this 
responsibility back onto the schools.  Yet the cost of processing this 
unnecessary application process continues to drive up the fee.  

While I understand that USCIS is permitted by law to recover the full cost 
of its services through fees, and indeed has no other option so long as 
Congress is unwilling to appropriate funds for the operation of the 
agency, I ask that the fees be reduced to the actual cost of processing 
the application or petition.  Meanwhile, I ask Congress to step up to its 
responsibility for fixing the untenable situation that drives these fee 
increases. 

Thank you for the opportunity to comment. 

Sincerely, 

Leanne Seedorff 

This message has been verified by CapwizXC as authentic and sent by this 
individual.  Authentication ID: [OJH16Hw6] 

Changed message text: 73.9%