From: daveysim@insightbb.com [mailto:daveysim@insightbb.com]  
Sent: Sunday, February 18, 2007 10:25 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: Support for Higher Immigration Fees 

Dear Madam/Sir:   

  I am writing in support of the proposed new schedule of fees for immigration services 
(DHS Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044. ) 

  I believe the higher fees are quite reasonable and prudent in terms of the immense 
individual value realized by the applying immigrant and by the current and prospective 
rising costs to our taxpayers in the administration of immigration.   

  First, the immigrants and their patrons abroad and in the US should understand that 
these higher costs are de minimis in terms of future earning and other benefits of the 
immigrant.  They are the real winners in this process.  The taxpayers should not have to 
subsidize the process. Second, the new fees could have a small positive effect on the 
number of fraudulent claims as well as providing additional resources for the 
investigation of those claims.  Third, as we now seem headed, and with the mentality of 
congress, immigration is very likely to grow even faster than in the past decade.  It is best 
that we begin building a fund for resources to be ready for this coming 
administrative/enforcement workload.   

  Finally, many non-profits assisting immigrants already receive federal, state and local 
grants to help them in their programs.  This provides an opportunity to recover some of 
those funds.  Those same non-profits are also supported by huge tax-exempt 
philanthropic foundations and charities that can afford to bear more of the costs of 
"immigrantization" of the USA. AS work related visas grow as a category, major 
corporate users of H1-B and their law firms are realizing considerable profits in their 
facilitation of importation of cheaper labor.  They can also afford to bear the higher costs.  

  Please stick to your present proposal.  The country will be better off for it.  

Dave Simcox 
901 Burning Springs Circle 
Louisville, KY 40223