Jane Lindberg 
Parent Educator 
Parents as Teachers 
1005 Active Drive 
St. Louis, MO 63146-5005 

March 22, 2007 

Regulatory Management Div U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, 3rd Floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

Dear Director, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service: 

I oppose the proposed increases in USCIS service fees.  Such increases 
will disrupt family unity, further victimize vulnerable populations, and 
be economically infeasible for low-income immigrants.  

While I agree that service quality should be improved to eliminate the 
backlog and remedy misplaced cases (up to 110,000 as estimated by the 
GAO), this burden should not be borne solely by immigrants who are already 
struggling to cover agency payments.  Immigrants paying these fees are 
law-abiding individuals who pay taxes, contribute to their communities, 
speak English, and know American history.  We all benefit from increases 
in legal immigration and citizenship - economically and culturally.  

I am especially concerned with the burden that the proposed increases 
would place on families. Families are the backbone of our society.  Our 
immigration policies should never prevent a mother from being with her 
children, or a husband from joining his wife. I especially oppose all fee 
increases that would jeopardize family reunification, noting particularly 
I-129F, I-130, I-600/A, and I-187.  

The integrity of families should not be sacrificed in a "business 
decision" - USCIS officials' justification for the fee increases.  
Besides, government services lack the price-control mechanisms present in 
competitive markets. 

Under this new fee structure, an individual earning minimum wage would 
have to save an entire month's pay in order to file an adjustment of 
status application ($1,370, up from $180).  Faced with the proposed $595 
fee (up from $330) for a naturalization application, parents should not 
have to choose which child can apply for citizenship versus another. 

I commend USCIS for eliminating fees for certain interim benefits and 
initial applications for T-visas (I-914) and VAWA qualifying individuals.  
However, these vulnerable populations would still suffer from the proposed 
changes.  Victims of human trafficking and gender-based violence are often 
in desperate financial situations.  Should these increases take effect, 
many could not afford to adjust their status, apply for work permits, or 
reunify their families, and could face deportation or elongated detention. 

Rather than enacting these fee increases, USCIS should work with Congress 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to create an alternative and permanent funding stream for immigration 
services.  No law prohibits USCIS from diversifying its revenue through 
congressional appropriations, which has been accomplished in the past.  
Officials also should take into account various alternatives to detention 
and deportation that would prove more cost effective and less harmful to 
families and communities in the United States. 

In the name of families, vulnerable populations and those seeking a better 
life, please do not enact the proposed USCIS fee increases. 

Sincerely, 

Jane Lindberg 
3148787401 
Parent Educator 
Parents as Teachers