From: Stephen Coleman [mailto:stevec1961@earthlink.net]  
Sent: Thursday, March 22, 2007 8:00 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: USCIs-2006-0044 

Emilio Gonzalez 
USCIS Director 

I would like congratulating you for building an Immigration service for the 
21st Century. For some customers, the system is actually working very fast, 
Although; is not the same for me. I am the only person that I have knowledge 
with a case too much old like mime, I summit an application for political 
Asylum in 1993 almost 14 years ago; and, finally in 1999 a Judge of 
Immigration Court gave us a political Asylum. After that, in 2001, based on 
grant of asylum more than1 year ago, I applied for Adjustment of Status. 
Then, I was waiting for years until 2005   I received a bibliography Form to 
actualize my records. Was then, when my Agony stared. My marital status 
changed because my husband pass away in 2000, information that I explained 
in the bibliography Form. INS sends back our case to asylum office and they 
approved our case again. I would like to notice that the INS make emphasis 
in report the change of address a soon as possible with the For R-11 but 
never do the same with the change of marital status. For this reason my case 
is taking too much time, but that time is not justified. I just expend 10 
minutes with the Asylum officer to approve my case again. An he told us on 
the interview you will received your I-94 in two week and still waiting 
after 5 months. He also told us" you suppose to receive the green card right 
now and you are ready to apply for citizenship". 
7 years after I send the application for Adjustment of Status (I-485) and I 
still waiting. I know about other cases and they received the Green Card 
just in 2 years or less. 
I consider, is an injustice for a widow with an orphan son to have done this 
over again; can you please imagines how many employment authorization cards 
I have since 1993? And how much money that represent? Also, every 2 years 
paying for a Driver license and the last time they only gave me the Driver 
license for 11 months. 
My case is not moving, my concern is in 2 years my son will be 21, if we not 
receive the Green Cards soon; he has to return to Asylum office to do the 
same over, and over again. And I have to hire a lawyer again, who represents 
my son. Everything is ready and checked in our case. We are decent people 
with high moral values, and not criminal records. My son graduated with 
Honors from H.S, and now is an excellent student of FSU. 
I have to many questions, why us? , How many more years? Or may be I had to 
wait for an Immigration Reform? 
I hope God give you the wisdom to lead this institution on the right way. 

Please, Mr. Emilio Gonzalez can you help my son and me with our case. Our 
case is out of limited of time. 

Carmen R.  Arce  &  Jacques Massard.