From: Donghui Li [mailto:donghui.li@gmail.com]  
Sent: Thursday, February 01, 2007 3:40 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: DHS Docket No. USCIS-006-0044 

DHS Docket No. USCIS-006-0044 

I strongly oppose the proposal by US Citizenship and Immigration 
Services (USCIS) to increase immigration filing fees by an average of 
66%.  Tens of thousands of people have been suffering from the poor 
service offered by the USCIS, including years of waiting and 
separation from family members.  This increase would create a barrier 
for some immigrants and serve as a new tax on applicants seeking to 
immigrate or to become citizens. 

USCIS may well be the only government agency other than the Postal 
Service that tries to operate 99% on user fees. These fees are 
expected to pay not just for the services delivered to the applicant, 
but for the agency's overhead and for law enforcement activities such 
as investigations and security checks. It is well past time that the 
Administration requested, and the Congress appropriated, funds to 
allow this agency to properly do its job. Funding an entire agency on 
the backs of immigrants and their U.S. citizen spouses is beyond the 
pale. 

I am deeply concerned that the public will not get significantly 
improved services to go with the significantly increased fees.  USCIS 
Director Gonzalez has stated a goal for the agency of a 20% 
improvement in processing times by the end of 2009. A 66% increase in 
fees now for at best a 20% improvement in service three years from now 
is simply not acceptable. 

Over the past 12 years we already have seen a fourfold increase in the 
cost of applying for citizenship. This proposed hike would result in a 
more than sevenfold increase. In 1994 the cost was only $95, now the 
total fees are $400, and under this proposal they will become $675. I 
am unconvinced that the money from new increases will be put toward 
improving the antiquated systems that have caused years-long delays in 
the path to citizenship. 

Raising the cost of immigration applications is not a viable solution. 
 It is time for the Administration and Congress to step up and fund 
the government's fair share of the process. 

Donghui Li 
Stanford, CA