Performing Arts Visa Task Force 

March 6, 2007 

Director 
Regulatory Management Division 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, 3rd Floor 
Washington, D.C. 20529 

Re:  DHS No. USCIS-2006-0044 

On behalf of the Performing Arts Visa Task Force, we submit these comments in 
response to the proposed rule published in 72 Fed. Reg. 4888-4915 (February 1, 2007) to 
adjust the immigration and naturalization benefit application and petition fee schedule. 

We are opposed to the proposed increase of the filing fees for nonimmigrant worker 
petitions.  The proposed increase in the Form I-129 filing fee - from $190 to $320 – will 
be financially burdensome to U.S. nonprofit performing arts petitioners and performers.  
Moreover, the increase in the Form I-824 – from $200 to $340 – is prohibitive.  Before 
the USCIS contemplates any price increase, regular processing procedures must be 
improved.   

The Performing Arts Visa Task Force is a coalition of national arts organizations 
including the American Arts Alliance, American Federation of Musicians, American 
Symphony Orchestra League, Association of Performing Arts Presenters, Dance/USA, 
North American Performing Arts Managers and Agents, OPERA America, and Theatre 
Communications Group.   

The Task Force is dedicated to improving opportunities for international cultural 
exchange, and to informing U.S.-based nonprofit performing arts petitioners about 
compliance with U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) requirements, 
particularly as they pertain to the engagement of foreign guest artists through the O and P 
visa categories.  As national arts service organizations, we frequently provide technical 
assistance for U.S.-based arts organizations and artist managers undergoing the visa 
petition process.  Through interaction with arts-based visa petitioners, we receive 
frequent feedback regarding the visa process.   

American nonprofit arts organizations provide an important public service by presenting 
foreign guest artists in performances, educational events and cultural programs in 
communities across the country. Delays and unpredictability in visa processing have 
made it increasingly difficult for international artists to appear in the United States. 
USCIS should not consider a fee increase without first improving regular processing 
procedures in the following ways: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Performing Arts Visa Task Force 
Page 2 of 4 

USCIS SHOULD MAKE THE FOLLOWING IMPROVEMENTS: 

1.  Reduce the maximum processing period for O & P petitions to 30 days.  

Nonprofit performing arts organizations typically use the O and P visa categories to 
bring artists to the United States for guest performances.  Receipt notices from USCIS 
often indicate that processing periods for regular petitions will range anywhere 
between 30 and 120 days.  This time span is simply too ambiguous and lengthy to 
accommodate booking and presenting foreign guest artists for performances with a 
fixed date. 

Non-profit organizations cannot afford to routinely pay $1,000 per petition to secure 
for the 15-day Premium Processing Service.  In its current state, the regular petition 
process is unreliable and unpredictable.  We fear that the current process is hindering 
the ability of arts organizations to present foreign guest artists, particularly at a time 
when international cultural exchange is most essential. 

To engage foreign guest artists, and more freely facilitate international cultural 
exchange, the nonprofit performing arts community must be able to rely upon a 30-
day maximum processing period. 

2.  Improve the reliability and consistency in adjudication of O and P petitions.    

Current USCIS policies and practices result in inefficient processing of O and P visas 
- causing delay, expense, and unwarranted requests for further evidence.   
USCIS must implement uniform policies, procedures, and training for efficient 
processing of petitions in the following areas: 

Standards for Artists in the O-1B Classification 
The USCIS frequently misinterprets the O-1 standard of distinction, resulting in the 
denial of some artist petitions.  Performing artists are required to meet the standard of 
distinction under INA § 101(a)(46) and further clarified under 8 CFR §214.2(o)(3)(ii) 
as follows: 

Extraordinary ability in the field of arts means distinction.  Distinction means a high 
level of achievement in the field of arts evidenced by a degree of skill and recognition 
substantially above that ordinarily encountered to the extent that a person described as 
prominent is renowned, leading, or well-known in the field of arts. 

This definition of distinction is not uniformly applied by USCIS examiners.  However 
the regulatory phrase “substantially above that ordinarily encountered” may be 
interpreted, it is not the same as the requirements for “extraordinary achievement” or 
“extraordinary ability” in other areas.  It simply means "distinction."  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Performing Arts Visa Task Force 
Page 3 of 4 

Comparable Evidence 
Many examiners incorrectly believe that an artist is not “distinctive” unless the artist 
is being hired for a leading or principal role.  Artists hired for engagements with U.S. 
arts organizations may meet the standards of “distinction” even if performing in 
secondary, supporting, or ensemble roles.  In addressing the standard of “distinction,” 
petitioners are not limited to providing the documentation listed in 8 CFR 
§214.2(o)(3)(iv) and 8 CFR §214.2(p)(4)(i), but can rely on comparable evidence.  
Examiners should not treat the suggested documentation list as a fixed checklist.  
They should look to the overall weight of the evidence provided regardless of 
whether specific types of suggested evidence have been provided.   

Qualified Petitioners 
Some examiners incorrectly believe that an artist’s employer cannot petition on 
behalf of other employers or that the only type of petitioner who can petition on 
behalf of more than one employer is a professional agent or manager.  Under 8 CFR 
§214.2(o)(2)(i) and (iv)(E) and 8 CFR §214.2(p)(2)(iv)(E)(2), there can be three 
different types of petitioners: (1) an artist’s employer; (2) a professional agent or 
management company; or (3) any U.S. citizen, corporation, or organization appointed 
by the artist or the artist’s employers to petition on behalf of all employers of the 
artist during a requested classification period.  

Itineraries  
Artists frequently perform for multiple employers - and at multiple theatres and 
venues - during a requested classification period   In reviewing an artist’s proposed 
itinerary of performances, examiners need to be aware that there will be gaps between 
performances to allow for travel time, rehearsals, rest, etc.  Such gaps should be 
anticipated and, within reason, permitted.  

3.  Reduce the errors in I-797 notices.   

Petitioners report frequent instances of erroneous, incomplete, or missing I-797 
notices of approval.  These errors jeopardize the ability of artists to travel to the U.S. 
in time for scheduled performances. 

Moreover, according to the USCIS, the processing time for I-824 Application for 
Action on an Approved Application or Petition is nearing six months.  In cases in 
which an arts organization requires a duplicate I-797 delivered to a consulate, this 
lengthy processing time is unacceptable.   

4.  Implement uniform policies to improve the traditional expedite service.  

The USCIS has made traditional expedite processing available at no additional fee in 
cases where petitioners, through no fault of their own, experience an unforeseen 
emergency, and where failure to expedite the petition will result in serious harm, 
economically or otherwise, to the petitioner.  Since implementing the Premium 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Performing Arts Visa Task Force 
Page 4 of 4 

Process Service, the USCIS has allowed non-profit organizations to remain eligible 
for the traditional expedite.   

However, the USCIS standards for granting expedited processing requests are 
unclear.  The traditional expedite is not helpful unless there are clear, uniform 
policies appropriately followed and administered by USCIS. 

We are grateful for the opportunity to comment on this proposed fee increase.   We 
oppose the proposed fee increase and urge the USCIS to demonstrably improve 
processing of regular petitions before burdening petitioners with any increase in 
processing fees. 

Thank you for your consideration. 

Sincerely, 

American Arts Alliance 
American Federation of Musicians  
American Symphony Orchestra League 
Association of Performing Arts Presenters 
Dance/USA 
North American Performing Arts Managers and Agents 
OPERA America 
Theatre Communications Group 

Attachment:  Performing Arts Visa Task Force Contact List  

Cc:  Dr. Emilio Gonzales, Director, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 

Sen. Patrick Leahy, Senate Judiciary Committee Chair 
Sen. Arlen Specter, Senate Judiciary Committee Ranking Member 
Sen. Edward Kennedy, Immigration Subcommittee Chairman  
Sen. John Cornyn, Immigration Subcommittee Ranking Member 
Rep. John Conyers, House Judiciary Committee Chair 
Rep. Lamar Smith, House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member 
Rep. Sheila Jackson-Lee, Immigration Subcommittee Chair 
Rep. Steve King, Immigration Subcommittee Ranking Member 
Prakash Khatri, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services Ombudsman 
Michael Biggs, Director of Policy, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration  
   Services