APR-82-2887 

12:44 

REP  JOE  BACA 

Congress of the United States 
House of Representatives 

Congressman Joe Baca 
1527 Longworth House Office Building 
Washington, D.C.  205 15 
(202) 225-6 16 1 
Fax: (202)  225-8671 
http://www.houso.gov/b~~a 

"Fighting for  California 's' 43rd District" 

Facsimile Transmission ffbm Rcp. Baca 

DATE:  ~ / U O T  

, 

PAGES (including cover): 

The inforrnqtion contuinsd on this covsrpage or attachedto rhls cover page is inrendsdfo~ ths individual named on this cover sheet 
and Ls conridered Ofleidl Business of Rep. Baca  Any questions regarding content or the transmission of this far  should be directed 
to (202) 225-6161. 

APR-82-2887 

12:44 

REP  JOE  BACA 

April 2,2007 

Richard A. Sloan 
Director, Regulatory Management Division 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
11 1 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, 3rd Floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

Dear Director Sloan: 

The Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) has long defended the needs of immigrants 
who come here to improve our nation, their own lives, and the lives of their families.  In 
addition to this commirolent, the CHC aims to highlight the vital contributions 
immigrants make to our communities and our economy.  As such, we are concerned 
about the fee increases proposed by the United States Citizenship and Immigration 
Services (USCIS). 

To an individual or family hoping for a better life in our country, an average increase of 
66% is extremely steep.  It would be cost prohibitive for a family who wants to come 
here lenally, play by the rules and contribute, and such an increase may have the perverse 
result of inhibiting people from irnrnigratinglegally.  This proposed increase is  - 
effectively pricing potential legal immigrants out of benefits for which they are eligible. 

- 

. 

We understand that it is important to review the costs of processing immigration 
applications and the need for the agency to have the hnds it needs to provide quality 
services in an efficient manner.  However, also important is gauging the real rationale and 
impact of potential cost increases.  As presented, the proposed fee increase appears to 
burden future legal immigrants with budget shortfalls and mismanagement of the past. 
This is wrong.  Moreover, we understand that, initially, the cost increase will not 
necessarily be accompanied by service increases as USCTS works to implement 
improvements.  Customer service and processing backlogs have not improved enough to 
justify  such a steep fee increase.  Predicting better service on the backs of the next wave 
of immigrants we want to help strikes us not only as unfair, but also as a questionable 
way to do business. 

PRINTED ON eECYCLED  PAPER 

APR-82-2887 

12:44 

REP  JOE  BACA 

USCIS is tasked with a critical job that i s  vitally important to us, our constituents, and 
this Congress.  There are many elements of the fee increase that we trust you will closely 
consider.  The proposed fee increase includes costs directly associated with processing 
applications, as well as indirect costs, such as infrastructure improvements, automating A 
files, and USCIS administrative headquarters.  However, rather than burden applicants 
with these costs, USCIS should have engaged Congress to cooperatively work to identify 
how to more appropriately cover those costs with appropriations or other means. 

Sincerelv. 

f l o e  Baca 
Chair 
Congressional Hispanic Caucus 

CHC Immigration Task Force