From: Mark & Pam Best [mailto:marknpam@prodigy.net.mx]  
Sent: Wednesday, March 28, 2007 9:40 AM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: Docket Number USCIS-2006-0044 
Importance: High 

March 27, 2007 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 

111 Massachusetts Avenue, NW., 3rd Floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

Re:  Proposed Adjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit 
Application and Petition Fee Schedule, DHS Docket Number USCIS-2006-0044 

To Whom It May Concern: 

This letter is in opposition to the proposed fee increases for the 
I-600/600A orphan petitions required of adoptive families.   

In 1989, the cost of an I600/I600A petition was $75.  Today the exact same 
form costs a prospective adoptive parent $545.  Biometric fingerprinting, 
which began in 1998, has risen in cost from $25 to $70 per applicant.  For a 
two-parent family adopting a single child, the USCIS process costs an upward 
of $685.   Because of the instability concurrent with international 
adoption, many families find that their USCIS approval expires prior to 
their invitation to travel to their prospective child's birth country.  As a 
result, many families (especially those adopting from China and Guatemala) 
find themselves repeating the entire immigration application two or three 
times.  This can increase the cost of an adoption by thousands of dollars - 
money many of us simply do not have.  

 The department admits that it has a dismal track record in processing 
applications and with its customer service.  Processing throughout the 
regional offices is erratic - some I-600A applications take months to 
process, while individuals in other districts received approval of the exact 
same form within ten days.  The refusal of officials to give adoptive 
parents priority results in children languishing in orphanages or foster 
care overseas for months and months at a time.  Most egregious is that the 
processing time for immigrant workers (I-140) and employment authorization 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(I-765) are less (average of 3.31 and 1.97 months, respectively) than that 
to bring home an orphaned child (3.39 months).   There is no explanation for 
why USCIS finds it possible to process the projected 859,543 I-765 and 
129,743 I-140 applicants faster than the 29,260 I-600/600A applicants.  Why 
are children seeking to immigrate to the U.S. given greater scrutiny than 
adult foreign workers? 

Adoptive parents attempting to learn the status of their petition are met 
with deaf ears and directed to a "status" website which is not updated.  As 
a result of USCIS' refusal to prioritize orphan petitions, thousands of 
children suffer needlessly.  There has been no move by USCIS to assist 
prospective adoptive parents whose documents "expire" while they wait for 
their child's home country to grant them approval to travel.  These parents 
are forced to reapply with USCIS, repaying the same exorbitant fees two and 
sometimes three additional times, each time subjecting themselves to the 
same long and uncertain wait for immigration approval.  If USCIS would 
simply extend the "expiration" deadline for the I-171H from eighteen months 
to three years, it would significantly reduce its workload without having to 
increase its fees. 

In this request for an increase in fees, USCIS is not asking for what it 
needs, it is asking for what it wants.  It claims that this fee increase "is 
designed to provide for an adequate and sustainable level of investment in 
staff, in infrastructure, and processes designed to improve the USCIS' 
ability to administer the nation's immigration laws."  The Bureau justifies 
these increases by asserting that "this fee rule would provide the necessary 
resources to maintain these processing time standards and fund further 
improvements to USCIS business operations to continue to reduce processing 
times while ensuring the appropriate level of security." 

There are very few infants infiltrating Al-Qaeda.  The idea that adoptive 
parents are a threat to national security is laughable.  While we agree with 
the aims of the Department of Homeland Security, the additional levels of 
scrutiny on orphaned children and their prospective parents is absurd.   

While the aims of the department are laudable (reducing identity fraud, 
improving service, changing benefit applications from paper to electronic 
means in order to streamline the process) forcing adoptive parents to bear 
the burden of these goals is unconscionable.  Worse still, many of USCIS' 
stated aims do not directly benefit those seeking to immigrate.   

Many adoptive families have been through years of infertility and loss, and 
are mortgaging our homes and cleaning out our life savings to bring home a 
child.  Increasing the burden on us is not simply unfair, it is detrimental 
to the lives of waiting children.  We urge rejection of the current proposal 
and a new requirement that USCIS reduce the fee burden on adoptive families, 

 
give first priority to I-600/600A applications, consolidate the paperwork 
required for orphan petitions, and extend the "expiration" of the I-171H 
from eighteen months to three years. 

Sincerely, 

Mark and Pam Best 

Adopting Parents 

marknpam@best.name  

(936) 622-3415 

I am using the free version of SPAMfighter for private users. 
It has removed 18 spam emails to date. 
Paying users do not have this message in their emails. 
Try SPAMfighter for free now!