From: Carl Maltba [mailto:cmaltba@core.com]  
Sent: Thursday, March 29, 2007 4:07 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: Docket Proposal #USCIS-2006-0044 

Re:  Docket Proposal #USCIS-2006-0044 
To Whom It May Concern: 
I recently read with horror that USCIS plans to double and triple immigration fees.  I 
must oppose an increase of any kind based upon the following: 
1. USCIS claims permanent residence requests are processed within 6 months and hopes 
to reduce this time period to 4 months.  My wife is foreign and has been waiting for 2 
years for her permanent residence.  Currently, we have a suit before the US 6th District 
Court hoping to force USCIS to process my wife’s permanent residence. 
2. My wife is currently on her second Employment Permit.  Since USCIS did not process 
her permanent residence, we had to renew her Employment Authorization at a cost of 
$180.  To add insult to injury, USCIS states renewals should be submitted 6 months prior 
to the expiration of the current Employment Permit.  We complied with this request.  But 
rather than simply renew her Employment Authorization, USCIS issued a new Permit 
which actually reduced her employment eligibility by 3 months.  As a result, instead of 
expiring this November, her Employment Permit will expire this August.  I’ll then need 
to pay an additional $340.00 to renewal an even shorter Work Authorization period.   
3. USCIS is accountable to no one.  I’ve asked my Federal Representatives for assistance 
and even submitted a petition of 80 signatures to Congresswoman Jones, then Senator 
DeWine, and current Senator Voinovich. This effort proved futile.  Moreover, I asked the 
FBI, Homeland Security, and even President Bush for assistance.  Again, my efforts were 
in vain. No one seems to have jurisdiction over USCIS!  Lastly, to add further insult to 
injury, USCIS has motioned to dismiss my wife’s suit in the US 6th District claiming the 
court has no jurisdiction over a federal agency.  So to who is USCIS accountable? 
In closing, again permit me to voice my protest against any type of fee increases for 
USCIS.  The agency obviously needs assistance.  However, until they become 
accountable, are responsive to immigrant/citizen inquiries/concerns, and hold true to their 
word in terms of processing times, I can not see how any type of increase can be justified.  
Thank you for your attention.  
Carl E. Maltba 

--  
CoreComm Webmail.  
http://home.core.com