From: Rich [mailto:forsale1954@gmail.com]  
Sent: Tuesday, February 06, 2007 8:21 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: DHS Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044 

DHS Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044 

After reading the information contained in this proposal I notice and approve of the idea of 
streamlining the K-3 process, and changing over to an electronic processing platform from the 
current paper based process. 

What is not in this proposal are specific costs for the upgrade. 
USCIS reports that over 84% of all information and customer service interactions are self-service. 
Applicants can also access recorded information (including information about the status of their 
specific case) 24 hours a day/7 days a week. 

This means that the computer systems are already in place to process the needed information. 
What more is needed in this area? 
I also notice the enormous jump in fees, adjusted for inflation in processing the documents. 
The growth in charges between 1989 and 1991, when many fees doubled is especially 
distressing and probably unfounded. 

I believe many of the fee increases in this proposal are unfounded and are simply an attempt to 
grow the power and control of an agency already out of control. 
Homeland Security seems to be more interested in growing it's bureaucracy and power than in 
protecting the United States by this proposal. 
A case in point is the ITI program which was suspended in 2003 with a promise that it would be 
reinstated ot made secure in a short period of time. 
To date nothing has been done to reinstate this program which simply allows passengers to walk 
from one aircraft in an international terminal to another, all the time being under surveilance of 
security personnel. 
This has increased the processing of  visas enormously since a person now needs a visa simply 
to walk between planes. 
If this burden was removed, as it could easily be, many of the extra personnel currently involved 
in this useless process could be used where actually needed. 

Expanding the number of Interagency Border Inspection System (IBIS) checks should not be 
funded by persons applying in a legal manner for entry to the United States through K-1, K3, and 
other types of visas where the person entering is a negligible or non existent risk to the security of 
the country. 
The idea of a young female from the Philippines, CIS, or Latin American countries being a 
security is a ludicrous notion and they and their fiances or spouses should not bear the burden. 

Until where the increase in revenues are specified and USCIS is required to justify why they are 
needed and required to use them in those specific areas this proposal should not be 
implemented. 

Since my K-3 application will be completed before this proposal takes affect this will not affect 
me. 
It will affect many other deserving applicants in the future.