From: Tami Sutton [mailto:tamisutton@sbcglobal.net]  
Sent: Wednesday, March 28, 2007 5:25 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: Protest of USCIS's intention to raise fees; docket number USCIS-2006-0044 

Re: U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services; docket number USCIS-2006-0044 

My name is Tami Sutton and I am a prospective mother of both a Chinese and Vietnamese child. 
My husband and I have attempted to have a child for over 5 years now. I have had three 
surgeries and countless doctor visits. We've been through an emotional roller coaster -- each 
time believing that this time would be the one that works, only to find that it wasn't.  

It was a tough time but it led us to consider adoption. It took awhile for the idea to sink in, 
especially for my husband who had to come to grips with the fact that our child wouldn't contain 
his DNA, but once it did, we went at it with full hearts and a new hope that I can't even begin to 
describe. After considering many avenues, including domestic, we decided on China and 
Vietnam. It just felt right. I have nothing against domestic adoptions. I think they are a blessing to 
both the children and the parents; however, given the situation that I had been through, I knew I 
couldn't stand the possibility of the mother or father changing their mind and taking my baby away 
from me. With international adoption, that can't happen. 

It's very important that you not raise the rates that affect the adoptions of international children. It 
is a good thing that the US is doing by allowing these adoptions. It benefits the children, ensures 
a good relationship with other countries, provides humanitarian aid, and creates happy parents of 
people like myself and my husband. Adoption itself is so very, very expensive, with a certain 
element of unknown that hangs over your head until your child is in your arms and you're 
standing on American soil again. Please don't make this journey any more expensive and 
stressful than it is. 

In addition, many families are barely able to afford adoption right now. A 66% increase in rates 
(as is requested in some cases) will make adoption unfeasible for some would-be parents. 

I hope that you will consider my words and take my pleas to heart. Please keep the rates as they 
are and, as an added bonus, lengthen the amount of time that the I-171 and fingerprints remain 
valid. 

Please feel free to contact me if I can be of any further help. 

Sincerely, 
Tami Sutton 

.· ´¨¨)) -:¦:-¸.·´ .·´¨¨)) 
((¸¸.·´ ..·´  We are the music makers and we are the dreamers of dreams. ~~Willie Wonka-
:¦:- -:¦:- 
-:¦:- ((¸¸.·´*