From: mike lewis [mailto:mike@zambooie.com]  
Sent: Sunday, April 01, 2007 6:25 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: [Docket No: USCIS-2006-0044];[FR Doc: E7-01631];[Page 4887-4915]; Immigration: 
Benefit application fee schedule adjustment 

Dear Powers that Be 
I call you that, because you really do have the power in this situation, your decision, vote 
and or recommendation. Is crucial and effects peoples lives, I know this is one of many 
letters you will receive from people who you are about to raise prices on, and when 
people use words like Fees and prices it brings everything down to a WAL MART Level 
taking out the emotion involved in this issue, and making it about money. 
Understand that this is not about fees, or any kind of commerce I know this what you 
wrestle with the bottom line and balanceing budgets, but what is really at stake is Family.  
I have heard politically on TV and the newspaper everyone throws around words like 
Family Values of the importance of family by even considering raising the fees you 
purpose in fact keeps family separated, separated by Finance. Which ultimately is a poor 
reason to keep families shut down.  
Your first response to what I have said so far would be in the realm of he is just upset at 
paying more money and of course he would say all this and to that I would say money is 
an issue but really, to us its one of many hurtles, that keeps pushing us further and further 
away of being a whole family, because the pain and loneliness that comes from an 
incomplete family can not be measured in funds, because you see if you raise the fees to 
unreachable heights, we will in turn do anything it takes to raise the money to complete 
our home, we would put ourselves in financial risk in order to fund the hope that Love 
Offers through the love of a child. Yes you will feed your bottom line but it will only 
complicate an already unbearably long wait to fulfill the Hope in Love. 
What you may have not considered is those of us who cant have children and what that 
means to us spiritually and physically. We are scrutinized to the highest degrees in this 
Adoption process, finger printed, background searched, multiple paperwork that is all tied 
to some fee, and we have to endure the probe of our background what we did as 
teenagers, how our home looks, and finally a social worker meets with us multiple times 
to study if we will be fit parents, measures not shared by people who are fertile. 
All that may seem reasonable to you for anyone wanting to be a parent, but I will say that 
only ADOPTIONS are required to go through such investigations and expense to prove 
our worthiness to parent a child. I was flipping through the channels this week on my 
spring break and I watched about three minutes of Jerry Springer, and what I saw where 
people who had little to no regard for family let alone children, these people were granted 
the right to bare children, without the state departments involvement, without one single 
piece of paper signed, no home study to prove they were ready or capable to be parents. 
They were given this right even as one woman did not want the right. Just because she 
was fertile. And the price to bare her child would be passed to the Taxpayer, and not to 
her or her family, the state gladly granted her the ability and expense without any 
questions as too whether she could Raise a child. 
I grew up in a home where my father did not want to be a father let alone have children, 
this man should have been required to go threw some type of screening before he had 
kids, but he did not. If you raise these fees you are in fact punishing people who have 

 
applied and been approved to parent children by standards you your selfs may never have 
to achieve. Please make the right choice as it is yours to make and in your hands to Bless 
Families who both want need, and already are being put through years of waiting to be 
granted the ability to Parent a child, and Love a child. 
The Fees increase will only complicate an already complicated process. 
Much Thanks 
Future father of Mady Lewis (child in China) 
Michael Lewis