Carol Solko-Olliff 
600 Park St. 
Hays, KS 67601-4009 

March 26, 2007 

USCIS Comments 

Dear USCIS Comments: 

I am writing to you as one of the International Student Advisors at Fort 
Hays State University in Hays, KS and in strong opposition to the February 
1, 2007, proposed rule "Adjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization 
Benefit Application and Petition Fee Schedule."  The proposed fee 
increases are so exorbitant they will act as a disincentive for 
international students and scholars to study and work in the United 
States.  USCIS must reconsider the role of appropriated funds to meet the 
administrative needs of the agency.  I ask that fees be reduced to a more 
appropriate or actual cost of processing the application or petition.  In 
addition, I would ask you to consider appropriating some federal funding 
to USCIS as well. 

The United States reaps immeasurable benefits—for our foreign policy, our 
students' education, our economy, our competitiveness, and our public 
diplomacy—from attracting the best and brightest international minds and 
the next generation of world leaders to America's educational 
institutions.  If these fee increases go into effect, it will once again 
be another reason for international students and scholars to seek other 
countries to continue their education and work opportunities. 

The fact that USCIS operates on a fee-funded basis creates a built-in 
incentive to subsidize unnecessary work.  This creates an incentive to 
requiring USCIS approval for things; that way, you can charge a fee for 
processing the request, which provides necessary income to finance your 
broader operations.  The I-765 fee for Optional Practical Training is a 
classic example.  It was once possible for school officials designated by 
the INS to approve OPT in accordance with agency regulations.  The 
benefits of reinstituting and expanding this process speak for themselves: 
 no application, no processing, no fee, one less task to be performed by 
the agency, more time to devote to what the agency really needs to do.  
There is no obvious public policy reason for USCIS to require agency 
approval for OPT today.  With the Student and Exchange Visitor Information 
System (SEVIS) now fully in place, it would be easy to devolve this 
responsibility back onto the schools.  Yet the cost of processing this 
unnecessary application process continues to drive up the fee.  The 
near-doubling of the I-765 fee for international students in F status to 
apply for work authorization for Optional Practical Training, from $180 to 
$340 is extremely excessive. 

While I have only specifically addressed the OPT fee increase, the other 
proposed fee increases are equally excessive.   I understand that USCIS is 
permitted by law to recover the full cost of its services through fees, 
and has no other option so long as Congress is unwilling to appropriate 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
funds for the operation of the agency, I would ask that the fees be 
reduced to the actual cost of processing the application or petition.  
Meanwhile, I ask Congress to step up to its responsibility for fixing the 
untenable situation that drives these fee increases.   

In closing I would ask that you not support a rule that puts additional 
undue and excessive financial hardship on an already financially tapped 
group of students and scholars.  Thank you for the opportunity to comment. 

Sincerely, 

Carol Solko-Olliff 
785-628-4276 

This message has been verified by CapwizXC as authentic and sent by this 
individual.  Authentication ID: [GVQ95Et6] 

Changed message text: 82.5%