From: mail.relay@mailmanager.net [mailto:mail.relay@mailmanager.net] On Behalf Of Sarah 
Stevens 
Sent: Monday, March 05, 2007 4:03 PM 
To: USCIS Comments 
Subject: DHS Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044 - USCIS Fee Increase Comment 

Sarah Stevens 
Southern Oregon University, 1250 Siskiyou Blvd 
Ashland, OR 97501 

March 5, 2007 

USCIS Comments 

Dear USCIS Comments: 

I am writing to you as an international educator in opposition to the 
February 1, 2007, proposed rule "Adjustment of the Immigration and 
Naturalization Benefit Application and Petition Fee Schedule."  The 
proposed fee increases are so exorbitant they will act as a disincentive 
for international students and scholars to study and work in the United 
States.  

I ask that fees be reduced to the actual cost of processing the 
application or petition.  

At Southern Oregon University, we have international students and scholars 
file many petitions that will be affected.  The Office of International 
Programs also files petitions for our staff and faculty.  

The proposed fee hikes are enormous:  

   •The near-doubling of the I-765 fee for international students in F 
status to apply for work authorization for Optional Practical Training, 
from $180 to $340.  At SOU we have about 20 students file for OPT each 
year.  This increased fee burden will severely impact our students and may 
result in fewer high quality students opting to stay in the U.S. and work. 
 This will be a loss to the U.S. economy and workforce.  

   •The fee required to hire an international staff or faculty member.  
There is an increase from $190 to $320 (a 68 percent increase) in the 
I-129 petition for nonimmigrant worker.  These fees are on top of the 
required data collection and fraud prevention fee, which is not part of 
the fee schedule. 

   •The huge increases in the fees required to adjust status from H-1B to 
legal permanent resident (green-card status), including:  the 
near-tripling of the I-485 application fee for permanent residence, from 
$325 to $905; and the increase from $195 to $475 (143 percent) in the 
I-140 immigrant petition for alien worker.  (The proposed increase in the 
I-485 fee is partly offset by the fact that it is accompanied by the 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
elimination of additional filing fees for work authorization and for 
permission to re-enter after traveling abroad.  However, the inclusion of 
those fees in the proposed new I-485 fee means that they would have to be 
paid even by those who do not expect to require the benefit.) 

At SOU, we pay the I-129 fee and the I-140 fee for the faculty and staff 
we employ.  We generally file for 3-4 international employees a year.  As 
you know, SOU is already facing a severe budget problem.  The fee 
increases mean several thousand extra dollars that departments will have 
to find in already reduced budgets.    

Fees for family members, such as spouse and children, are generally paid 
by the employees.  The increases in fees will have a severe impact on 
families and may prevent SOU from attracting the most qualified staff and 
faculty members.  

Apart from the direct impact of the excessive fees, they are contrary to 
clearly expressed U.S. policies.  The President, the Secretary of State, 
and indeed the Secretary of Homeland Security have expressed clearly and 
often the high value that the United States places on attracting 
international students and scholars to this country.  The United States 
reaps immeasurable benefits—for our foreign policy, our students' 
education, our economy, our competitiveness, and our public diplomacy—from 
attracting the best and brightest minds and the next generation of world 
leaders to America's educational institutions. 

Regrettably, the increased fees will reinforce the inefficiencies and 
dysfunctionalities USCIS inherited from INS when the Department of 
Homeland Security was created.  The solution to correcting the systemic 
problems that plague the agency is not to keep raising fees.  While that 
is understandable, it is not acceptable as a matter of public policy, 
because it prices statutory benefits out of the reach of those who need 
them.  

The fact that USCIS operates on a fee-funded basis creates a built-in 
incentive to subsidize unnecessary work.  This creates an incentive to 
requiring USCIS approval for things; that way, you can charge a fee for 
processing the request, which provides necessary income to finance your 
broader operations.  

The I-765 fee for Optional Practical Training is a classic example.  It 
used to be possible for school officials designated by the INS to approve 
OPT in accordance with agency regulations.  The benefits of reinstituting 
and expanding this process speak for themselves:  no application, no 
processing, no fee, one less task to be performed by the agency, more time 
to devote to what the agency really needs to do.  There is no obvious 
public policy reason for USCIS to require agency approval for OPT today.  
With the Student and Exchange Visitor Information System (SEVIS) now fully 
in place, it would be easy to devolve this responsibility back onto the 
schools.  Yet the cost of processing this unnecessary application process 
continues to drive up the fee.  

While I understand that USCIS is permitted by law to recover the full cost 
of its services through fees, and indeed has no other option so long as 
Congress is unwilling to appropriate funds for the operation of the 
agency, I ask that the fees be reduced to the actual cost of processing 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the application or petition.  

Meanwhile, I ask Congress to step up to its responsibility for fixing the 
untenable situation that drives these fee increases. 

Thank you for the opportunity to comment. 

Sincerely, 

Sarah E. Stevens, PhD 
541-552-6338 

This message has been verified by CapwizXC as authentic and sent by this 
individual.  Authentication ID: [56eovyy3] 

Changed message text: 28.0%