March 26, 2007 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
US Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Ave. NW, 3rd floor 
Washington DC 20529. 

RE:  DHS Docket # USCIS-2006-0044 
Proposed rule— Adjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit Application 
and Petition Fee Schedule 

On behalf of the Interfaith Leadership Project of Cicero and Berwyn, I am writing to strongly 
oppose the increase to immigration and naturalization fees that US Citizenship and Immigration 
Services (USCIS) proposed on February 1, 2007.   

The Interfaith Leadership Project (ILP) is an institution-based community organization working 
to build power for member institutions and residents of Cicero and Berwyn by fostering 
relationships, developing leaders, and deepening civic engagement.  Our members include local 
churches, businesses and civic organizations.   We conduct a citizenship project as part of the 
New Americans Initiative through which 1800 local residents have applied for US Citizenship.  
We work with state, local, and federal legislators to increase access to opportunities for our large 
immigrant population. 

Many of the immigrants and refugees we work with on a daily basis already struggle to pay 
immigration fees.  The steep increases proposed by USCIS, which in some cases double the 
current fee, would put the goals of gaining permanent resident status, reuniting with family 
members, and ultimately becoming a US citizen farther out of reach.  USCIS should be building 
bridges for immigrants to move toward citizenship, not putting up walls. 

The proposed fee for naturalization is particularly jarring.  As recently as 1998, the cost to apply 
for citizenship was $95.  In 2002, after the Bush Administration took office, the costs (including 
biometric fees) went up from $250 to $310.  The total fees are now $400, a fourfold increase in 
the past eight years.  Now USCIS is proposing a further increase of 70%, to $675.  An immigrant 
working at a minimum-wage job would need to work for more than three weeks and save all of 
his earnings in order to pay this fee. 

Even more startling is the proposed cost of filing for adjustment of status, which for many 
immigrants is the first step on the road leading to US citizenship.  That application has risen from 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$130 in 1998 to $325 today, plus $75 for biometrics.   Under the proposed rule, the price will rise 
to $905 plus $80 for biometrics.  In other words, it will cost nearly $1,000 for an immigrant to 
get a green card and start the five-year countdown to citizenship.  A minimum-wage immigrant 
worker would need to save a full month’s pay to afford the proposed fee. 
. 
USCIS claims that the fee increase is necessary to improve service.  USCIS definitely needs to 
improve service, as shown by the continuing backlogs in application processing and the months-
long (even years-long) delays caused by security checks.  Last October, the Government 
Accountability Office reported that the agency had lost track of 110,000 files needed to process 
citizenship cases.  We applaud USCIS’s efforts to improve service.  We nevertheless believe that 
the burden of paying for such improvements should not rest solely with immigrants who are 
already struggling to pay agency costs and receiving poor service.   

USCIS also argues that it has no other option than raising fees if it wants to cover its costs.  In 
fact, there are no laws that require USCIS to fund all of its operations through fees.  Nothing 
prevents USCIS from pursuing other sources of revenue, including asking Congress for 
appropriations.  Indeed, USCIS has sought and received Congressional funding several times in 
the past 

Most basically, immigration and citizenship are public goods that benefit our entire country and 
that we as a nation should help pay for.  Immigrants bring their talent and hard work to our 
economy.  They pay taxes and help revitalize our communities.  In becoming citizens, 
immigrants demonstrate their strong commitment to their new home country by learning English, 
gaining knowledge about American history and government, and swearing allegiance to the 
United States.  It is little wonder that newly naturalized citizens, eager to participate in our 
democracy, consistently vote at higher rates than other citizens.  We should be encouraging 
immigrants to become part of our community by gaining legal status and becoming citizens, not 
setting up barriers that block their path and keep them out.   

For all these reasons, the proposal to increase immigration fees is misguided and 
counterproductive.  We urge USCIS to reconsider this proposal, and to seek other sources of 
funding for its operations, rather than add more burdens on immigrants.  Thank you for your 
consideration. 

Sincerely, 

Cristine Pope 
Director 
Interfaith Leadership Project