Michael Stahl 
645 G Street, Suite 201 
Anchorage, AK 99501-3451 

April 2, 2007 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Ave.  NW, 3d Floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

 Director, Regulatory Management Division: 

I am an attorney practicing in the field of immigration law, and I have 
significant experience with the immigration process.   I am very dismayed 
by the Immigration Service's proposal to dramatically increase its fees.  
The  justifications for the significant increases are founded on unsound 
premises.  The logic is faulty and the effects will lead to more 
inefficiencies, delays, and unwieldy bureaucracy.   

First, management and tracking of immigrants is a government function, 
much like police protection or fire protection and it cannot be treated as 
a free market sale of services to immigrants. The benefits of documenting 
immigrants inure to the American public as a whole, not only to the 
immigrants, American citizens, and businesses that petition for 
immigrants.  The premise that the immigrants themselves must pay to be 
documented does not properly identify who really benefits from the 
immigration system.  Paying some fees for the services is completely 
warranted, but foisting the cost of documenting immigrants on a narrow 
sector of American society seems more vindictive than logical. 

The details of the Immigration Service's proposal reveal many 
inefficiencies in their processes.  I will not catalogue them all here.  
Suffice it to say I have witnessed the inefficiencies in practice as well 
as seeing them in the proposal. Even if applicant fees in theory are 
supposed to pay for the services, the Immigration Service should not be 
allowed to function so inefficiently and expect to pass the costs of its 
inefficiency onto the victims of its inefficiency.  It seems to me the 
Immigration Service is saying, "we can't function within our budget, so 
give us more." 

Activities Belonging under Appropriated Funds 

Despite what seems to be the Service's impression to the contrary, the 
statute does not require that it fund all its operations via fees. Under 
INA section 286(m), "fees for providing adjudication and naturalization 
services may be set at a level that will ensure recovery of the full costs 
of providing all such services." 

The authorizing statute limits the fee-funding scope to "providing 
adjudication and naturalization services" and administering the fees.  It 
does not authorize fees to cover other activities. Many of the costs 
anticipated by this fee regulation do not belong in the fee account.  The 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Service has chosen to expand its mission beyond adjudication and 
naturalization and enter into the realm of law enforcement.  There is no 
statutory mandate tha applicants pay for this function. 

Also, the language of the statue is permissive, not mandatory.  Fees "may" 
be set at a level... The Service must be held accountable to justify why 
the fees should be set at any given level, and this the Service has failed 
to do. 

When the Department of Homeland Security was established, Congress 
consciously and deliberately separated the Department's adjudicative arm 
(USCIS) from its enforcement arm (what has become ICE and CBP).  The 
intent was to keep the functions separate.  Even if the agency has strayed 
from that intent in its operations, at a minimum the funding should be 
kept separate. 

The Service should seek appropriated funds at a level sufficient to pay 
for the additional services and processes that, in turn, benefit everyone. 
 For example, increased payments to the FBI for fingerprint, name, and 
security checks which benefit national security;  processing of Freedom of 
Information Act requests, for which every other government agency receives 
appropriated funds; agency administration with nine headquarters offices 
and field locations worldwide; and information technology enhancements, 
should not be borne by applicants alone.  In addition, funding for 
Internal Security and Investigative Operations for the investigation of 
misconduct of Federal and contract employees should not benefit from user 
fees.  

Impact of the Fee Increases 

The fee increases will also effectively impose a means test and cost 
barrier on the ability of immigrants to attain benefits for which they are 
eligible. This appears to me to be contrary to our national values.  The 
United States is built on the principal of equality and inherent value of 
each individual, both native born and immigrant.  No one can seriously 
suggest that immigrants do not fulfill a vital role in our economy and our 
society.  We should not be erecting monetary barriers to their achieving 
immigration benefits and ultimately U.S. citizenship when they are 
eligible. 

I am afraid the significant fee increase will "price immigrants out of the 
market."  In reality many immigrants have trouble paying the fees now.  I 
believe in practice, such expensive fees will lead many to remain illegal 
and undocumented, not for lack of eligibility, but simply because of cost. 
 In point of fact, deportations will increase and that arm of the 
bureaucracy including the ancillary detention function and immigration 
court docket will need to expand. 

Another side effect will be an increase in poorly prepared applications 
which will increase government processing times while adjudicators become 
the assistants to the self represented immigrants.  If the application 
fees are so expensive, the applicants will not be able to afford to pay 
someone with expertise to help them prepare applications.  Adjudicators 
will be forced into the role of assistant preparers, or deny benefits if 
they are unwilling or frustrated in that role.  I see this now, when those 
who incorrectly prepared their own applications come to me after their 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
first attempt.  They wind up filing twice, thereby doubling the caseload 
of the Service for that particular immigrant.  That is if they are lucky 
enough to get a second chance.  Presumably there are those that do not get 
a second chance, but get put into deportation instead after a lengthy and 
messy adjudication process.  Or they may simply believe themselves 
ineligible and not seek a second chance, "floating" aimlessly and 
undocumented.  Again, the effect is an increase in eligible immigrants who 
will not get benefits but who are eventually diverted into the deportation 
channels. 

Finally, the immigration process continues to be plagued by inconsistent 
and inefficient adjudication.    There should be no fee increase until the 
Service is able to articulate a detailed and concrete plan which 
demonstrates a real commitment to the elimination of inconsistent and 
inefficient adjudication.  Such a plan should include rulemaking and 
training, tracking of adjudications, and a system of accountability.  The 
U.S. government should foot the bill for its government functions and 
spread the cost to the American taxpayers as a whole.   

Significant numbers of residency and citizenship applications have been 
awaiting security clearances for years.  The backlog on obtaining these 
clearances continues to increase, preventing larger and larger numbers of 
people from obtaining lawful permanent residence or U.S. citizenship.  
And, recently, the Service announced that it no longer will expedite 
clearances when mandamus actions are filed on these long-stalled 
applications.  This, in turn, will increase overall costs for the Service 
in the form of costs for defending these suits (including paying attorney 
fees).   

In sum, the Service has failed to logically and legally justify these fee 
increases and the whole proposal should be withdrawn and reconsidered. 

Sincerely, 

Michael R. Stahl 
907-248-4950