u s i  l c l 0 4  

914-499-2070  >>  Fax 

t A C S I M I 1 . E  T R A N S M I T T A T .   S H E E ' I  

~p 

To: 

From: 

13irectr~r. It~:gulnroi? h1;lrl;lg~:mcnt 1)ivision 

, ]or1 l w c  N;LIT;IL:I 

Date: 

.\pnl2.  2007 

TOTAL NO. OF PAGES INCLUDING  COVER: 

.I 

SENDER'S REFERENCE 

NUMBER: 

13HS Dockcl  No. 1-SCT15 2006-0044 

. .. 

YOUR  REFERENCE NUMBER: 

FAX NUMBER: 

(866) 406 5370 

COMPANY: 
CS(-;IS 

PHONE NUMBER: 

Re: 

Fcc incl-<:rise 

NOTESICOMMENTS: 

-, 

-. 

-, 

914-499-2070  >>  Fax 

April 2,2007 

Director, Regulatory Managment Division 
United States Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homcland Security 
1 1 1 Massachusetts Ave., NW 3rd Floor 
Washington, D.C. 20529 

RE: DHS Docket No. USCIS 2006-0044 

Dear Director of Regulatory Management: 

I write in strong opposition to the proposal by the United States Citizenship and 
Immigration Services (USCIS) to increase the fees for starting the naturalization process. 
Under the USCIS' proposal, the fee tbr filing the Form N-400 would increase from $330 
to $595, and the biometrics fee would increase from $70 to $80, resulting in a total 
increase from $400 to $675.  The proposed 69% fee hike is an unfair burden for 
hardworking newcomers who wish to become U.S. citizens and participate in everything 
that this nation has to offer. 

Currently, many newcomer families have limited resources, and they work tirelessly to 
save up the money required to pay the current $400 naturalization application cast. 
According to data from the US. Census, about one-third (36%) of non-citizen households 
have annual incomes that are less than $25,000.  Family members often want to pursue 
U.S. citizenship by applying for naturalization at the same time.  With the increase 
proposed by the USCIS, a family of four would confront a bill amounting to $2,700.  An 
exorbitant price tag should not stand in the way of families seeking to realize the 
American Dream. 

1 do not oppose applicants paying a fee to apply for U.S. citizenship and commend the 
USCIS for taking the steps to improve customer services and processing times.  I also 
understand that the agency believes it needs to raise fees to pay for major infrastructure 
investments and process enhancements, such as improvements in the timeliness of 
background checks, modernization of its outdated business systems, facilities 
improvements and enhancements in its personnel training and recruitment programs. 
However, placing the full costs of these investments on the back of our nation's  legal 
permanent residents is driving fees to a level that immigrants simply cannot afford. 

1 urge the USCIS to work with the President and Congress to obtain appropriations to 
supplement fee revenue to cover costs of major USCIS expenses such as infrastmcture 
investments, process enhancements and capital improvements.  In the past, Congress has 
appropriated monies to assist the USCIS in facing challenges such as its application 
processing backlog.  The USCIS believes it needs to make significant investments to 
build an Immigration Service for the 2 1"  Century.  This is precisely the type of challenge 
that should be met through the partnership between applicants paying a reasonable fee 
and the appropriation of Congressional hnding. 

u s i  l c l 0 4  

914-499-2070  >>  Fax 

Ilnmig-ants who apply fill- L1.S.  citizenship are eagcr to dcnlonstrate thcir a)iiimitment to 
this country by becorning full participants  in our na1ion's  civic lifc.  If they cannot 
hecome U.S. citizens bccausc of an ~ntiiir ~ C C  Iiikc, we will all  lose an opportunity to 
strengthen and revi~ulizc trur democracy.  Our nation has a tratlitiorl ol'welco~ning 
newcorners becausc of thcir conlnhutiorls to oul- economic and social progress. The 
USC'IS'  proposed  fee increase is contrary to the spirit ol'this ttatlition anti sct~ds 
newcolliers the wrong mcssagc a14 ti~rlc W ~ I C I ~  they arc seekirl~ to elriblace 
1J.S. citizcnsliip.  I  ilrgc you to halt thc proposed natui-a1izatii)n fcc increase, an(!  scck 
appi-opriatcd funding to Iielp cover thu investments the CISCIS needs to provide quality 
services at an aflijl-dable price. 

Thank you  li)r y o ~ ~ r  

consideration of m y  vicws 

Joel Isxlc N a ~ v a c ~