March 21, 2007 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
US Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Ave. NW, 3rd floor 
Washington DC 20529. 

RE:  DHS Docket # USCIS-2006-0044 
Proposed rule— Adjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit 
Application and Petition Fee Schedule 

On behalf of my law office I am writing to strongly oppose the increase to 
immigration and naturalization fees, the elimination of VAWA self-petitioning 
fees, and changes to the fee waiver system that US Citizenship and Immigration 
Services (USCIS) proposed on February 1, 2007.   

I have been in the practice of immigration law for close to twenty-five years.  The 
firm represents predominantly lower middle income and lower income clients. 

Eliminating Fees for VAWA Self-petitioners 
While we work with immigrant survivors of domestic violence and other crimes, 
we oppose eliminating the self-petition fee, particularly in relationship to 
eliminating fee waivers as an option outside of the self-petitioning context.   

First of all, many victims of domestic violence gain status outside of the self-
petitioning context, including through family-based immigration and employment.  
Further, self-petitioners who separate from their abusers find protection in 
families and communities that will be harmed by the general fee increases, which 
in turn harms self-petitioners.  Finally, some of our self-petitioners can afford to 
pay the fees. Since USCIS argues that it needs fees to ensure efficient 
adjudication, self-petitioners who can afford to pay the fees should do so.  Those 
that cannot should be able to request a fee waiver. 

Fair Fee and Waiver Structure 
What self-petitioners need, like other immigrants, are a fee structure and a 
generous fee waiver system that reflect their financial reality. These principles 
should apply not just to self-petitioning, but to fees for work authorization, 
adjustment of status and other matters associated with obtaining self-petitioning 
status and permanent residence. This is how the current system works, and it 
works well for self-petitioners. Eliminating or restricting access to fee waivers for 
all related applications will undermine Congress’ goal to protect and provide 
secure status to immigrant survivors of domestic violence and other crimes. 

USCIS’ suggestion that public charge concerns make fee waivers inappropriate 
for those seeking adjustment of status is inaccurate.  Congress didn’t just 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
mandate access to self-petitioning for domestic violence survivors, it also 
smoothed the path to lawful permanent residence, including relaxing public 
charge considerations at the adjustment phase.  Self-petitioners, those seeking 
special immigrant juvenile status, U and T visa applicants, asylees and others 
may be able to overcome public charge concerns even if they obtain fee waivers.   

USCIS also argues that regular family-based petitioners should be ineligible for 
fee waivers because they must submit affidavits of support. Given the visa quota 
system and processing backlogs, many regular family-based immigrant 
applicants who need fee waivers at the initial phase may be able to overcome 
public charge concerns by the time USCIS adjudicates their adjustment 
applications.  This approach, in fact, comports with USCIS own instructions on 
considering public charge as a prospective test.  

Applicant choice, not inaccurate USCIS assumptions, should determine access 
to the fee waiver system.  USCIS should retain the existing fee waiver system, 
not restrict it.   

Do Not Erect a Financial Fence to Regularizing Status 
Many immigrants already struggle to pay immigration fees. The proposed 
increases in these fees, sometimes double the current fee, will create a financial 
fence to legalizing thousands of immigrants.  Drastically enhanced fees, coupled 
with restrictions on fee waivers, will force many hard-working immigrants into 
undocumented status.  These otherwise-eligible immigrants will become more 
vulnerable to exploitation and crime victimization and less able to contribute to 
our communities and formal economy.  This result confounds attempts at 
immigration reform by forcing people to become undocumented instead of 
encouraging them to gain secure legal status. 

USCIS should wait to see what Congress enacts in the coming year before 
suggesting new fees. The new law may create a new stream of money.  
Moreover, USCIS should not rely solely on fees to support its operations. It 
should ask Congress for direct support instead, which Congress has provided in 
the past. 

For all these reasons, the proposal to increase immigration fees and change the 
current fee waiver system is imprudent and ineffective in accomplishing the goals 
the DHS.  We urge USCIS to reconsider this proposal, to retain the existing fee 
waiver system and fees for VAWA self-petitioners, and to seek other sources of 
funding for its operations, rather than shift the burden to selected groups of 
immigrants.  Thank you for your consideration. 

Sincerely, 

Richard S. Bromberg 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2011 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW 
Suite 500 
Washington, DC 20006 
202-835-0660 
richard@bromberglaw.com