From: Paul.Briggs@firstdata.com [mailto:Paul.Briggs@firstdata.com]  
Sent: Monday, April 02, 2007 2:29 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: Docket # USCIS 2006-0044: Comments 

To Whom It May Concern, 

I am writing this note to voice my objection to the raising of fees for the 
processing of USCIS forms.  I understand the cost of processing documents, 
however I do not agree that this increase is fair, that the additional 
expense doesn't address the process enhancements that could be made, and 
does not delivery any better service for the fees provided. 

In addition to my belief that the fee increase is unfair due to the 
inefficiencies in the process, I also believe it to be an unfair burden on 
the requestors.  The people who largely require these forms have limited 
funds for this type of expense.  In our case, the cost of adopting children 
is extremely high to begin with.  Increasing the cost of USCIS processing 
will negatively impact the abilitiy of many families to afford adoptions; 
some may be more discouraged and give up, others will take longer to get 
the additional expenses covered.  In all of these cases the ones who suffer 
most are children. 

The IRS service has improved dramatically over the past several years; 
their website is great and the severices are timely and greatly more 
accurate and consistent.  The Social Security website is also very helpul, 
beneficial, and user friendly.  However, the USCIS website is modestly 
beneficial and still has contradicitons (ie receiving checks vs. money 
orders).  Also, the inability to speak with a person at the regional 
offices is very negative.  I find this level of service to be difficult to 
accept and do not want to provide add'l funds to support it.  There are 
technology and management/process improvements that need to be evaluated 
for cost reductions before there should be any increase in fee's. 

Additonal fee increases create an undue financial burdern on my family in 
our pursuit of international adoptions.  We know of many hopeful adoptive 
families that will also be negatively impacted by the proposed fee 
increases. 

Please do not increase the USCIS forms processing fees. 

Respectfully, 

Paul S. Briggs 

----------------------------------------- 
The information in this message may be proprietary and/or 
confidential, and protected from disclosure.  If the reader of this 
message is not the intended recipient, or an employee or agent 
responsible for delivering this message to the intended recipient, 
you are hereby notified that any dissemination, distribution or 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
copying of this communication is strictly prohibited. If you have 
received this communication in error, please notify First Data 
immediately by replying to this message and deleting it from your 
computer.