From: Mittleider, Kalin [mailto:kmittleider08@law.du.edu]  
Sent: Monday, February 19, 2007 2:55 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: DHS Docket Number USCIS-2006-0044 

Dear Secretary Chertoff and the Administrative Staff of the Department 
of Homeland Security: 

I am writing to address the proposal to increase certain immigration 
fees.  While I agree that a fee increase is necessary to ensure public 
safety and agency efficiency, I have three main concerns with the 
proposed increase. 

The drastic fee increase proposed could encourage more illegal 

1. 
border crossing resulting in more undocumented people.  One reason that 
people choose to cross the border without proper authorization is the 
cost of a visa or other immigration status.  Because the border is 
currently relatively easy to pass through undetected, the fee increase 
will likely exacerbate the problem.  This will end up increasing the 
costs for Customs and Border Patrol and for Immigration and Customs 
Enforcement, which will be unprepared for the greater influx of 
undocumented people. 

2. 
With the incredibly high proposed increase in immigration fees, 
it is likely that fewer people will use the assistance of immigration 
lawyers that are now necessary to complete the complex forms and other 
requirements.  This can backfire and harm the country because many who 
will benefit our country will likely not be able to successfully 
complete the forms without legal assistance.  Many people comment that 
immigration paperwork has become as difficult as the U.S. tax code.  It 
is a complex world of legal documentation, which most often requires the 
assistance of an immigration lawyer.  For example, under the Immigration 
Marriage Fraud Act, the requirements to successfully obtain 
unconditional lawful permanent resident status have become increasing 
complex.  There are initial filing deadlines that require incredible 
amounts of paperwork and other evidentiary support to obtain conditional 
permanent resident status.  Then there are additional filing 
requirements to remove that conditional status with additional filing 
fees.  The current rate of adjustment of status for marriage petitions 
is $935.00.  The proposed change in fees more than doubles that cost. 
It is very likely that with more than a 100% increase in immigration 
fees, many people will try to navigate the world of immigration law 
alone and unassisted. 

It is important that people be able to get legal assistance for the many 
requirements and to be completely informed of all that the immigration 
laws require of them.  This fee increase will likely cause many people 
to file for immigration benefits without being fully informed about what 
they need to do to successfully pass through all of the immigration 
hurdles.  This can be nearly impossible without an immigration attorney. 
Because many people will not seek legal assistance under the proposed 
fee increase, the United States will end up preventing many valuable 
immigrants from becoming a part of our nation and contributing to its 
growth and development.   

3. 
the fees that are waived for particular immigration benefit claims or 

It appears counterintuitive to increase the fees to counteract 

 
 
 
 
 
 
for those who cannot afford the fees while decreasing a person's ability 
to request a fee waiver.  INA section 212(a)(4) prevents those who are 
likely to become public charges from being admitted to the United 
States.  However, these fee increases are such that many people should 
be able to request a fee waiver, and they still would not fall into the 
definition of one likely to become a public charge.  Many of these fees 
are too great for many people to afford.  Therefore, fee waivers should 
be available when the fees are increased by an average of 86% [as stated 
by Emilio T. Gonzalez in his statement before the House Judiciary 
Committee on February 14, 2007], and sometimes even more.  However, this 
proposal seeks to decrease a person's ability to request waivers.  If 
the Government intends to decrease waivers available, then there is not 
the need to increase fees as drastically as is currently being proposed 
to cover those requesting waivers or other free immigration benefits.   

Based on the foregoing reasons, I respectfully request that Mr. Chertoff 
and the Department of Homeland Security rethink the amount that the fees 
will be increased.  This is due to the above three concerns I have 
listed.  First, the proposed fees will likely increase illegal border 
crossings. Second, it will prevent people from seeking legal assistance 
for immigration benefits and exclude people who would be beneficial to 
this country.  Finally, the proposed increase is counterintuitive as it 
purports to increase fees to cover those seeking fee waivers and other 
free immigration benefits while the proposed rule seeks to limit a 
person's ability to obtain a fee waiver.   

I sincerely hope that my comments are taken into consideration and that 
this proposed rule be modified to a less drastic fee increase.  Instead 
of the current proposal, I hope the Government would choose to employ a 
more reasonable fee increase such as 30% to 33%.  I believe that this 
increase would still allow the Government to maintain its efficiency and 
thoroughly screen those seeking admission without creating the adverse 
effects of the drastic proposed increase.  Under a smaller fee increase, 
I think it would still be completely reasonable for the Government to 
seek to limit fee waivers.