step up to its responsibility for fixing the untenable situation that 
drives these fee increases. 

Thank you for the opportunity to comment. 

Sincerely, 

Charter Morris 
662 915-1558 

Please use this link to SEE ME and view more information about me 
http://capwiz.com/nafsa/picturepages.tt?id=9637

This message has been verified by CapwizXC as authentic and sent by 
this 

individual.  Authentication ID: [ettfJKN8] 

Changed message text: 31.7% 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
clearly expressed U.S. policies.  The President, the Secretary of 
State, 

and indeed the Secretary of Homeland Security have expressed clearly 
and 

often the high value that the United States places on attracting 
international students and scholars to this country.  The United States 
reaps immeasurable benefits-for our foreign policy, our students'  
education, our economy, our competitiveness, and our public diplomacy-
from attracting the best and brightest minds and the next generation of 
world 

leaders to America's educational institutions. 

Regrettably, the increased fees will reinforce the inefficiencies and 
dysfunctionalities USCIS inherited from INS when the Department of 
Homeland Security was created.  The solution to correcting the systemic 
problems that plague the agency is not to keep raising fees in a futile 
attempt to finance a twenty-first century agency.  Unfortunately, to 
meet its statutory requirements, USCIS is turning to its only steady 
source of funding, its filers and petitioners, to finance the required 
modernization of its systems.  While that is understandable, it is not 
acceptable as a 

matter of public policy, because it prices statutory benefits out of 
the 

reach of those who need them.   

The fact that USCIS operates on a fee-funded basis creates a built-in 
incentive to subsidize unnecessary work.  This creates an incentive to 
requiring USCIS approval for things; that way, you can charge a fee for 
processing the request, which provides necessary income to finance your 
broader operations.  The I-765 fee for Optional Practical Training is a 
classic example.  It used to be possible for school officials 
designated 

by the INS to approve OPT in accordance with agency regulations.  The 
benefits of reinstituting and expanding this process speak for 
themselves:  
 no application, no processing, no fee, one less task to be performed 
by 

the agency, more time to devote to what the agency really needs to do.   
There is no obvious public policy reason for USCIS to require agency 
approval for OPT today.  With the Student and Exchange Visitor 
Information System (SEVIS) now fully in place, it would be easy to 
devolve this responsibility back onto the schools.  Yet the cost of 
processing this unnecessary application process continues to drive up 
the fee.   

While I understand that USCIS is permitted by law to recover the full 
cost of its services through fees, and indeed has no other option so 
long as Congress is unwilling to appropriate funds for the operation of 
the agency, I ask that the fees be reduced to the actual cost of 
processing the application or petition.  Meanwhile, I ask Congress to 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-----Original Message----- 
From: mail.relay@mailmanager.net [mailto:mail.relay@mailmanager.net] On 
Behalf Of Charter Morris 
Sent: Friday, March 02, 2007 8:25 AM 
To: USCIS Comments 
Subject: DHS Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044 - USCIS Fee Increase Comment 

Charter Morris 
International Programs, 331 Martindale 
University, MS 38677 

March 2, 2007 

USCIS Comments 

Dear USCIS Comments: 

My name is Charter Morris, and I am an advisor to international faculty 
and scholars at the University of Mississippi. 

I am writing to you as an international educator in opposition to the 
February 1, 2007, proposed rule "Adjustment of the Immigration and 
Naturalization Benefit Application and Petition Fee Schedule."  The 
proposed fee increases are so exorbitant they will act as a 
disincentive 

for international students and scholars to study and work in the United 
States.  USCIS must reconsider the role of appropriated funds to meet 
the administrative needs of the agency.  I ask that fees be reduced to 
the actual cost of processing the application or petition.   

Under the new Carnegie classifications, the University of Mississippi 
is a comprehensive, research institution with high research activity.  
Our university is home to 20 national research centers, including the 
National Centers for Natural Products Research, Physical Acoustics, and 
Computational Hydroscience.  The international researchers and faculty 
are key to the function and success of the university.  Our research 
centers 

rely on international collaboration and attract many international 
researchers, professors, and scholars to the institution.   

The new fee increases will hinder the University of Mississippi's 
ability to attract prominent researchers and needed faculty and 
instructors. 
Some 
departments with limited budgets, such as Modern Languages, will not be 
able to afford to support H-1Bs or Permanent Residency for future 
instructors and faculty.  This means that the University of Mississippi 
will no longer be able to offer the same level of quality education to 
its students. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Since the beginning of the fiscal year on July 1, 2006, the University 
of Mississippi has hosted 250 international faculty and researchers on 
J-1s, H-1Bs, TNs, O-1s, and PRs.  The actual monetary impact on the 
University 

of Mississippi based on the fee increases could be as much as $20,000 
in 

additional filing fees for I-129s and I-140s alone.  The additional 
cost 

to the international faculty and researchers and their families who are 
seeking Permanent Residency using the I-485 would be around $50,000.   
These figures do not include the additional thousands of dollars for 
other application fees.  Again, for many departments and many of the 
international faculty and researchers, these fees may prove to be one 
obstacle too many, and we may lose valuable minds to other institutions 
and to other areas of the world. 

International faculty and scholars, and campus officials that employ 
them, file tens of thousands of petitions and applications with USCIS 
annually, 
including:  

*The increases in the fees required in connection with change of status 
from F to H-1B, including the increase from $200 to $300 (a 50 percent 
increase) in the I-539 application to change nonimmigrant status, and 
the increase from $190 to $320 (a 68 percent increase) in the I-129 
petition 

for nonimmigrant worker.  These fees are on top of the required data 
collection and fraud prevention fee, which is not part of the fee 
schedule. 

*The huge increases in the fees required to adjust status from H-1B to 
legal permanent resident (green-card status), including:  the near-
tripling of the I-485 application fee for permanent residence, from 

$325 to $905; and the increase from $195 to $475 (143 percent) in the 
I-140 immigrant petition for alien worker.  (The proposed increase in 
the 
I-485 fee is partly offset by the fact that it is accompanied by the 
elimination of additional filing fees for work authorization and for 
permission to re-enter after traveling abroad.  However, the inclusion 
of those fees in the proposed new I-485 fee means that they would have 
to be paid even by those who do not expect to require the benefit.) 

Our institution pays the USCIS fees for the green card process for the 
person being hired.  The fees for the family members, such as spouse 
and 

children, are paid for by international employees themselves.  The 
increases in fees will have a severe impact on these families.   

Apart from the direct impact of the excessive fees, they are contrary 
to