I am writing to you as an international educator in 
opposition to the February 1, 2007, proposed rule 
“Adjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization 
Benefit Application and Petition Fee Schedule.”  The 
proposed fee increases are so exorbitant they will act 
as a disincentive for international students and 
scholars to study and work in the United States. 
USCIS must reconsider the role of appropriated funds 
to meet the administrative needs of the agency.  We 
ask that fees be reduced to the actual cost of 
processing the application or petition.  

On the I-765 Fee Increase: 
On our campus, we have about 1000 international 
students, many of whom are interested in using the 
Optional Practical Training (OPT) option upon 
graduation to find employment in their field. The 
proposed fee increase for this particular application 
is almost double, from $180 to $340! OPT is a benefit 
derived from having F1 status, and to have to pay $340 
for processing of such a benefit seems excessive. I am 
concerned that we will have students who will not be 
able to afford such high fees, especially when they 
are required to have made the application prior to 
graduation, when they are not yet working. Applying 
for OPT does not require a student to have a job offer 
in hand, and that student without an offer may have a 
hard time coming up with such a fee in order to enjoy 
a benefit they are entitled to. 

It used to be possible for school officials designated 
by the INS to approve OPT in accordance with agency 
regulations.  The benefits of reinstituting and 
expanding this process speak for themselves: no 
application, no processing, no fee, one less task to 
be performed by the agency, more time to devote to 
what the agency really needs to do.  There is no 
obvious public policy reason for USCIS to require 
agency approval for OPT today.  With the Student and 
Exchange Visitor Information System (SEVIS) now fully 
in place, it would be easy to devolve this 
responsibility back onto the schools. 

I-129, I-140 Fee Increase: 
We also file about 200 H petitions each year for our 
researchers and teaching faculty. 
The proposed fee increase for filing an H1 petition is 
going from $190 to $320 (a 68 percent increase) in the 
I-129 petition for nonimmigrant worker.  These fees 
are on top of the required data collection and fraud 
prevention fee, which is not part of the fee schedule. 
On average, we file about 90 petitions each year. 

We are also concerned about the proposed fee increase 
in the permanent residency arena. For all our long 
term hires, we will certainly be looking at sponsoring 

 
 
 
 
our international employees for a green card. The 
I-140 immigrant petition for alien worker fee is 
proposed to go up from $195 to $475, more than double 
the current fee. We filed at least 20 such petitions 
last year. 

Our campus is constantly looking to hire the best 
person for the job, regardless of their nationality. 
The impact of these fee increases, should it go into 
effect, will be quite substantial on our various 
program budgets. We want to attract and hire the best 
candidates for our critical faculty and staff 
positions, and having to consider these fees can 
detract from hiring the best, if there are budget 
constraints. 

We are also not convinced that we will see much return 
for these projected fee increases: will we get better 
adjudication times? We need to see that there will be 
faster adjudications for our petitions and 
applications for such steep fee increases. USCIS last 
increased their fees in October 2005. We certainly did 
not see any improvements in adjudication times from 
those fee increases. 

I-485 Fee Increase: 
The huge increases in the fees required to adjust 
status from H-1B to legal permanent resident 
(green-card status), includes the near-tripling of the 
I-485 application fee for permanent residence, from 
$325 to $905. The proposed increase in the I-485 fee 
is partly offset by the fact that it is accompanied by 
the elimination of additional filing fees for work 
authorization and for permission to re-enter after 
traveling abroad.  However, the inclusion of those 
fees in the proposed new I-485 fee means that they 
would have to be paid even by those who do not expect 
to require the benefit; and we have quite a few 
faculty who opt to remain on their H1b until their 
I-485 is approved. 

Many of the faculty that we hire and file permanent 
residence for also have family members. Each member 
will also have to file and pay the I-485 fees. This 
increase will have a severe impact on families.  

Apart from the direct impact of the excessive fees, 
they are contrary to clearly expressed U.S. policies. 
The President, the Secretary of State, and indeed the 
Secretary of Homeland Security have expressed clearly 
and often the high value that the United States places 
on attracting international students and scholars to 
this country.  The United States reaps immeasurable 
benefits—for our foreign policy, our students’ 
education, our economy, our competitiveness, and our 
public diplomacy—from attracting the best and 

 
 
 
 
 
brightest minds and the next generation of world 
leaders to America’s educational institutions. 

While I understand that USCIS is permitted by law to 
recover the full cost of its services through fees, 
and indeed has no other option so long as Congress is 
unwilling to appropriate funds for the operation of 
the agency, I ask that the fees be reduced to the 
actual cost of processing the application or petition. 
 Meanwhile, I ask Congress to step up to its 
responsibility for fixing the untenable situation that 
drives these fee increases. 

Thank you for the opportunity to comment. 

Tina Tan