-----Original Message----- 
From: periodpiece@hotmail.com [mailto:periodpiece@hotmail.com] 
Sent: Friday, February 16, 2007 2:48 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: DHS No. USCIS-2006-0044 

Director Regulatory Management Division U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration 
Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, 3rd Floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

Dear Director U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, 

I am a performing artist - a classical singer and actor - who 
recently did a recital tour with instrumentalists from Sicily's 
Teatro Massimo di Palermo, in a joint production with 
California's Monterey Italian Heritage Foundation and Italy's 
500g. 

On behalf of arts presenters like the Italian Heritage group and 
500g, and the thousands of audience members we touched, I submit 
these comments in response to the proposed rule published in 72 
Fed. Reg. 4888-4915 (February 1, 2007) to adjust the immigration 
and naturalization benefit application and petition fee 
schedule. 

I am opposed to the proposed increase of the filing fees for 
non-immigrant worker petitions. The proposed increase in the 
Form I-129 and Form I-824 filing fees will be financially 
burdensome to smaller nonprofit performing arts organizations 
like the Heritage Foundation. Before the USCIS contemplates any 
price increase, regular processing procedures must be improved. 

USCIS should first improving regular processing procedures in 
the following ways: 

Reduce the maximum processing period for O and P petitions to 30 
days. Current USCIS processing periods range anywhere from 30 to 
120 days. This time span is simply too ambiguous and lengthy to 
accommodate booking and presenting foreign guest artists for 
performances with a fixed date, to say nothing of arranging 
international travel and housing. To engage foreign guest 
artists, and more freely facilitate international cultural 
exchange, the nonprofit performing arts community must be able 
to rely upon a 30-day maximum processing period. 

Improve the reliability and consistency in adjudication of O and 
P petitions. Current USCIS policies and practices result in 
inefficient processing of O and P visas - causing delay, 
expense, and unwarranted requests for further evidence. USCIS 
must implement uniform policies, procedures, and training for 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
efficient processing of petitions. If the artists are delayed, 
not only do they lose, but so do our communities who would be 
enriched by them, artistically and financially. 

Implement uniform policies to improve the traditional expedite 
service. The USCIS has made traditional expedite processing 
available at no additional fee to petitioners who experience an 
unforeseen emergency. Since implementing the Premium Process 
Service, the USCIS has allowed nonprofit organizations to remain 
eligible for the traditional expedite. However, the standards 
for granting expedited processing requests are unclear. There 
must be clear, uniform policies appropriately followed and 
administered by USCIS. 

Sharing art and music, whether between communities or countries, 
is an essential human experience. I am grateful for the 
opportunity to comment on this proposed fee increase. We oppose 
the proposed fee increase and urge the USCIS to demonstrably 
improve processing of regular petitions before burdening 
petitioners with any increase in processing fees. 

Thank you for your consideration. 

Sincerely, 
Teressa Byrne 
Performer 

117-A Palomar Ave. 
Shell Beach, CA 93449 

 cc:  
Senator Dianne Feinstein 
Senator Barbara Boxer 
Representative Lois Capps