From: Jane Rockwell [mailto:jrockwell@lvcv.org]  
Sent: Friday, February 16, 2007 1:18 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: USCIS-2006-0044 

2/16/07 

To Whom It May Concern: 

I am writing to request that you reconsider the plan to raise the fee for the N400 application from 
the current $330 (plus $70 for fingerprinting) fee to that of $595 (plus $80 for fingerprinting). I 
believe that this will make the dream of citizenship end for many of the individuals and families 
that I work for. 

I work for Literacy Volunteers-Chippewa Valley in Eau Claire, Wisconsin.  In September of 1995, 
we began helping individuals in our programs study and prepare for citizenship.  At that time, I 
believe that the fee for the N400 was $85.  There was no extra charge for fingerprinting and we 
were able to have that done for our students at our local police department.  I can think of no 
other fee or expense that has risen that sharply.  For example, although gasoline charges have 
certainly gone up, it certainly hasn’t been sevenfold! Ten years ago, I believe we paid in the 
neighborhood of $1.13 per gallon, and even when it was in it’s highest during this past year, it 
was only three times that amount!  If those prices were to double right now, as you plan to do with 
citizenship fees, our price per gallon would be approximately $4.70 per gallon. Imagine the uproar 
if this were to happen for the general public.  Most of us living here in the United States who are 
citizens, would not notice this doubling of the current N400 fee because it wouldn’t affect us 
personally, however, it would greatly affect those who can least afford it. Our legal immigrants to 
this country do not deserve this. 

Many of our program’s students work for minimum wage and have for years, despite their efforts 
to learn the language and better their lives. For some, this fee would cost them a month’s take-
home salary, and most are having trouble making ends meet the way it is. I beg you to rethink the 
rise in the N400 fee so that the dream of citizenship can come true for those who want to become 
citizens and participate fully in the American way of life.   

Sincerely, 

Jane A. Rockwell 
Eau Claire County Coordinator 
Literacy Volunteers-Chippewa Valley