® 

American Council on Education 
Office of the President 

April 2, 2007 

Director 
Regulatory Management Division 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
Washington, D.C.  20529 

Re:  DHS Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044 

Dear Director: 

On behalf of the undersigned higher education associations, I write to oppose the 

proposed rule, “Adjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit Application and 
Petition Fee Schedule,” published on February 1, 2007.  We believe the fee increases contained 
in this proposed rule are excessive, unnecessary and not in the long term interests of the United 
States. 

American colleges and universities have long been beacons to international students from 

around the world.  This enduring attraction benefits the United States in areas ranging from 
international relations to economic competitiveness.  By educating the world’s best and brightest, 
we ensure that future generations of foreign leaders have an opportunity to understand and 
experience American values first-hand.  Moreover, we ultimately enable significant numbers of 
foreign-born innovators and entrepreneurs to make substantial economic contributions to the 
United States. 

The fee increases envisioned by this proposed rule—which range from a 50 percent 
increase for an F to H-1B status change to a nearly 300 percent increase for an I-485 application 
fee for permanent residence—will have a predictably chilling effect on the number of 
international students coming to college in the United States.  Rather than discouraging these 
students from attending American colleges and universities, we should be welcoming them to 
our campus communities. 

One Dupont Circle NW, Washington, DC 20036-1193 
Telephone: (202) 939-9310    •    Fax: (202) 833-4762 
Web: http://www.acenet.edu 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Re:  USCIS Fee Letter 
April 2, 2007 
Page 2 

Accordingly, we respectfully request that the Department of Homeland Security abandon 

this proposed rule and base fees on the actual cost of processing applications and petitions 
submitted.   

Sincerely,  

David Ward 
President  

DW/mmm 

On behalf of: 

American Council on Education 
Association of American Universities 
Association of Jesuit Colleges and Universities 
Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities 
National Association of College and University Business Officers 
National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities 
National Association of State Universities and Land-Grant Colleges 
United States Student Association 

2