From: mail.relay@mailmanager.net [mailto:mail.relay@mailmanager.net] On Behalf Of 
Margaret Hellwarth 
Sent: Monday, March 05, 2007 2:04 PM 
To: USCIS Comments 
Subject: DHS Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044 - USCIS Fee Increase Comment 

Margaret Hellwarth 
2271 Almond Creek Dr. 
Reno, NV 89523-1298 

March 5, 2007 

USCIS Comments 

Dear USCIS Comments: 

I am writing to you as an international educator in opposition to the 
February 1, 2007, proposed rule "Adjustment of the Immigration and 
Naturalization Benefit Application and Petition Fee Schedule."  

I work specifically with some of the poorest and most determined students 
and immigrants in the U.S.: community college students.  F-1 international 
students tend to go to community college not because they are not 
qualified for university but because the out-of-state tuition they pay at 
universities like UNR is approximately $12,000 per year, while fees at the 
community colleges like Truckee Meadows are approximately $6000 - still a 
lot but half the price.  F-1 students who receive an associates degree use 
practical training to better prepare themselves for university, both with 
skills and with the ability to save some money toward a very expensive 
education.  The new proposed fee for practical training is so high, there 
are some students who will not have the cash available to apply for 
practical training, even if qualified.  This is not good for the employers 
who hire F-1 graduates with associates degrees in child care centers, 
retirement homes, hotels, stores and many other places in Nevada.  This is 
also not good for the student. 

   •The near-doubling of the I-765 fee for international students in F 
status to apply for work authorization for Optional Practical Training, 
from $180 to $340 will cause work experience for many students to be 
out-of-reach. 

I also work with many immigrant students, who are struggling on a 
day-to-day basis because the education they received in their home country 
is either not applicable in the U.S. or it cannot be used until their 
English improves.  At the usual pay for lower-educated or lower-English 
speaking workers in casinos in Nevada (where MANY new pending immigrants 
work), the new fees for applying to adjust status represent a total of 
what can amount to a MONTH'S SALARY.  Some families would have to choose 
between adjusting status legally or eating. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   •The huge increases in the fees required to adjust status to legal 
permanent resident (green-card status), are outrageous for this poor and 
hard-working group:  the near-tripling of the I-485 application fee for 
permanent residence, from $325 to $905; and the increase from $195 to $475 
(143 percent) in the I-140 immigrant petition for alien worker, or the 
I-130 petition for U.S. citizen relative.  (The proposed increase in the 
I-485 fee is partly offset by the fact that it is accompanied by the 
elimination of additional filing fees for work authorization and for 
permission to re-enter after traveling abroad.  However, the inclusion of 
those fees in the proposed new I-485 fee means that they would have to be 
paid even by those who do not expect to require the benefit.) 

Finally, the new proposal to increase the fee for the Form N-400 to $595 
for those who wish to request U.S. citizenship is the most painful example 
of how America is not taking care of the people who wish to become full 
participants in the democratic system.  I know of many immigrant students 
who are true patriots but they will never be able to afford to apply for 
citizenship if the fee is increased to $595.  That is out-of-range for 
working class families.  U.S. citizenship should never be something the 
requires wealth to acquire. 

Apart from the direct impact of the excessive fees, they are contrary to 
clearly expressed U.S. policies.  The President, the Secretary of State, 
and indeed the Secretary of Homeland Security have expressed clearly and 
often the high value that the United States places on attracting 
international students and scholars to this country.  The United States 
reaps immeasurable benefits—for our foreign policy, our students' 
education, our economy, our competitiveness, and our public diplomacy—from 
attracting the best and brightest minds and the next generation of world 
leaders to America's educational institutions. 

Unfortunately, to meet its statutory requirements, USCIS is turning to its 
only steady source of funding, its filers and petitioners, to finance the 
required modernization of its systems.  While that is understandable, it 
is not acceptable as a matter of public policy, because it prices 
statutory benefits out of the reach of those who need them.  

The fact that USCIS operates on a fee-funded basis creates a built-in 
incentive to subsidize unnecessary work.  This creates an incentive to 
requiring USCIS approval for things; that way, you can charge a fee for 
processing the request, which provides necessary income to finance your 
broader operations.  The I-765 fee for Optional Practical Training is a 
classic example.  It used to be possible for school officials designated 
by the INS to approve OPT in accordance with agency regulations.  The 
benefits of reinstituting and expanding this process speak for themselves: 
 no application, no processing, no fee, one less task to be performed by 
the agency, more time to devote to what the agency really needs to do.  
There is no obvious public policy reason for USCIS to require agency 
approval for OPT today.  With the Student and Exchange Visitor Information 
System (SEVIS) now fully in place, it would be easy to devolve this 
responsibility back onto the schools.  Yet the cost of processing this 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
unnecessary application process continues to drive up the fee.  

As a concerned citizen, I hope my representatives in Nevada will get 
Congress to step up to its responsibility for fixing the untenable 
situation that drives these fee increases. 

Thank you for the opportunity to comment. 

Sincerely, 

Margaret Hellwarth 
(775) 787-7621 

This message has been verified by CapwizXC as authentic and sent by this 
individual.  Authentication ID: [03nbfdt1] 

Changed message text: 56.4%