From: mail.relay@mailmanager.net [mailto:mail.relay@mailmanager.net] On Behalf Of Mary 
Donny 
Sent: Friday, March 30, 2007 3:15 PM 
To: USCIS Comments 
Subject: DHS Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044 - USCIS Fee Increase Comment 

Mary Donny 
201 Sage Road, Suite 100 
Chapel Hill, NC 27514-6510 

March 30, 2007 

USCIS Comments 

Dear USCIS Comments: 

USCIS Proposed Fee Hikes 

I am writing on behalf of the Visiting International Faculty Program (VIF) 
of the Center for International Education, Inc. (Exchange Visitor Program 
P-4-10082) regarding the proposed changes to the United States Citizenship 
and Immigration Services (USCIS) fees.  VIF has been sponsoring 
international teachers to the United States since 1989 and we are the 
largest K-12 teacher exchange program in the United States.  We seek to 
transform the educational experience of American students and invigorate 
their schools and communities by providing meaningful encounters with 
people from other countries.  Last year we hosted 1750 teachers from 50 
different countries. 

We are writing regarding the proposed changes to the USCIS Fees.  We are 
particularly concerned with the proposed fee hikes on the forms I-102 
Application for Replacement/Initial Nonimmigrant Arrival/Departure Record 
and the I-765 Application for Employment Authorization.  We object that 
the fees for both of these forms are being nearly doubled. 

Concerning the I-102 Application for Replacement/Initial Nonimmigrant 
Arrival/Departure Record, the proposed increase is to raise the fee from 
$160 to $320, thereby doubling the fee.  This form is used solely by those 
with J visas who either lose or have their passports and visas stolen.  
The increase in this fee is unfair because these visa holders are already 
in a stressful situation due to the loss of their passport and visa.  
Teachers in most parts of the world do not make a significant income and 
they should not be required to be wealthy in order to participate in the 
visitor exchange program.  Drastically increasing this fee will have an 
effect on those teachers who have enough funds to cover the program and 
the costs related to moving but do not have a significant amount of funds 
to cover emergencies such as this.  As the visitor exchange program aims 
to increase mutual understanding between peoples and cultures, it should 
not exclude those who lack funding.  This fee increase will exacerbate the 
challenging situation that these teachers are already confronting.    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Concerning the I-765 Application for Employment Authorization, the 
proposed increase is to raise the fee from $180 to $340, thereby almost 
doubling the fee.  This steep increase can create a hardship on those with 
J-2 visas and it can prevent them from obtaining employment.  This 
employment is not meant to provide a basic income for the family but is 
meant to help those with J-2 visas assimilate into the American culture.  
It also aims to provide both activity and stimulation for the dependant in 
order to avoid homesickness.  The fact that a dependent can work is in 
fact one of the benefits of the J visa program.  It helps to fully 
integrate the "alien" family into the community and it enhances the 
international exchange experience.  Should the fee for the Application for 
Employment Authorization be increased to $340, many dependents will no 
longer be eligible for work authorization simply due to financial reasons 
or will have to wait to save the money needed for this application, thus 
delaying the person's ability to participate in the work environment in 
the United States. 

In summary we respectfully request that you do not double these fees.  If 
the USCIS is simply increasing fees in order to cover costs, please 
consider either raising or adjusting the current fee by a much smaller 
amount or gradually raising the fees over a longer period of time.  Thank 
you for allowing us this opportunity to comment on these changes. 

Sincerely, 

Mary Donny, Director of Government Relations 
7572779832 

This message has been verified by CapwizXC as authentic and sent by this 
individual.  Authentication ID: [35yoqip4] 

Changed message text: 89.4%