-----Original Message----- 
From: joanner@rilearts.com [mailto:joanner@rilearts.com] 
Sent: Friday, February 16, 2007 7:49 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: DHS No. USCIS-2006-0044 

Director Regulatory Management Division U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration 
Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, 3rd Floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

Dear Director U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, 

On behalf of my performing arts organization and the artists and 
audiences we serve, I submit these comments in response to the 
proposed rule published in 72 Fed. Reg. 4888-4915 (February 1, 
2007) to adjust the immigration and naturalization benefit 
application and petition fee schedule. 

I am opposed to the proposed increase of the filing fees for 
nonimmigrant worker petitions. The proposed increase in the Form 
I-129 and Form I-824 filing fees will be financially burdensome 
to many nonprofit performing arts organization and to the 
artists as well. Before the USCIS contemplates any price 
increase, regular processing procedures must be improved. 

The proposed fee increase is excessive and futhermore, USCIS 
should not consider any fee increase without first improving 
regular processing procedures in the following ways: 

Reduce the maximum processing period for O and P petitions to 30 
days. Receipt notices from USCIS often indicate that processing 
periods will range anywhere between 30 and 120 days. This time 
span is simply too ambiguous and lengthy to accommodate booking 
and presenting foreign guest artists for performances with a 
fixed date. To engage foreign guest artists, and more freely 
facilitate international cultural exchange, the nonprofit 
performing arts community must be able to rely upon a 30-day 
maximum processing period. 

Improve the reliability and consistency in adjudication of O and 
P petitions. Current USCIS policies and practices result in 
inefficient processing of O and P visas - causing delay, 
expense, and unwarranted requests for further evidence. USCIS 
must implement uniform policies, procedures, and training for 
efficient processing of petitions. 

Implement uniform policies to improve the traditional expedite 
service. The USCIS has made traditional expedite processing 
available at no additional fee to petitioners who experience an 
unforeseen emergency. Since implementing the Premium Process 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Service, the USCIS has allowed nonprofit organizations to remain 
eligible for the traditional expedite. However, the standards 
for granting expedited processing requests are unclear. The 
traditional expedite is not helpful unless there are clear, 
uniform policies appropriately followed and administered by 
USCIS. And, often artists and artists' managers must prepare and 
expidiate petitions to save time and money for non-profits so 
they should also be included in this matter.  

I am grateful for the opportunity to comment on this proposed 
fee increase. We oppose the proposed fee increase and urge the 
USCIS to demonstrably improve processing of regular petitions 
before burdening petitioners with any increase in processing 
fees. 

Thank you for your consideration. 

Sincerely, 
Joanne Rile 
President 
"Joanne Rile Artists Management, Inc." 
93 Old York Road 
222 Jenkintown Plaza 
Jenkintown, PA 19046 

 cc:  
Senator Arlen Specter 
Representative Allyson Schwartz 
Senator Bob Casey