From: markludwig@domedesigner.com [mailto:markludwig@domedesigner.com]  
Sent: Saturday, February 17, 2007 10:24 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: Immigration Fee Increases 

Dear Sirs, 

I think that the proposed fee increases are a good idea. I know that the US is looking only for rich 
immigrants who can be milked for lots of taxes to keep Social Security and other government 
programs afloat. With your income requirements on sponsorship for immigrants, including wives, 
and your byzantine regulations which even your own people don't understand, you have already 
effectively set up a breeding program for the US, to breed the kind of citizens who will put up with 
anything and keep smiling, and who will pay plenty of taxes. Increasing the fees strengthens this 
stand even further. Often immigrants filing these forms have just come to the United States, or 
are trying to get established here, so to hit them with huge fees will first of all weed out all those 
who can't pay, and all those who have any sense of justice and find such fees unfair. That gets 
rid of all the poor louts who are just coming here to milk the system, and it gets rid of the 
troublemakers who have not yet realized that the government is God walking on earth, as Hegel 
put it.  

I also think the fee increases are great publicity for America. They give potential immigrants a 
better glimpse of what America really is, and what they can expect when they get here. I mean 
hey, what's a thousand bucks to get into heaven? 

And think of the possibilities with all the increased revenue from these fees. You could employ 
enough cops to strip-search every foreigner coming into America. Really, I think you should. I 
think you should also use some of the money to carry on a publicity campaign overseas to let 
foreigners know what they're getting into when they come here, how they can be arrested and 
thrown in jail with no charges, no right to a trial, etc., merely on the allegation that they've 
committed a crime at some time in their life. Tell them how your immigration jails are designed to 
humble them and drive them crazy. Maybe you could give out copies of the book American Gulag 
to every potential immigrant. Man, that would get them to mind their P's and Q's !!  

Not only that, with the increased revenue, you could afford to employ people who are even 
stupider than the ones you have now. Get more of those types that shave their heads and don't 
have any necks and who wear swaztika armbands when they're off duty. (Where do you find 
them, anyhow?) They'll really throw these immigrants down for the count, and you won't have to 
ever worry about getting troublemakers coming to the US anymore. 

Do it!