From: Andrea Plaza [mailto:andrea@southwestcreations.com]  
Sent: Thursday, March 01, 2007 12:03 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: RE: DHS Docket # USCIS-2006-0044 

To Whom it May Concern: 

I write to strongly oppose the increase of immigration and naturalization fees that the 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) proposed on February 1, 2007.  
Every day immigrants and refugees already struggle to pay immigration fees.  The steep 
increases proposed by USCIS would make it much more difficult to gain permanent 
resident status, reunite with family members, and become a U.S. citizen.  USCIS should 
be helping immigrants become citizens, not making it harder. 

I work with many women from Mexico who have been patiently waiting to formalize 
their status as citizens in this country.  Over the years these women have contributed to 
our local economy, grown as community leaders and have become strong forces at 
home.  They have earned the right to become citizens; however, with the proposed 
increase in fees they may have to postpone or even cancel their applications beyond the 
standard waiting period because they will not be able to afford the proposed increased 
fees. 

USCIS claims that the fee increase is necessary to improve service, and USCIS definitely 
needs to improve service.  While I applaud USCIS’s efforts to improve service, I do not 
think that the entire cost should rest on immigrants who are already paying taxes, 
working hard, and struggling to pay high fees while receiving poor service.   

Immigration and citizenship are public goods that benefit our entire country and that we 
as a nation should help pay for.  Immigrants work hard, pay taxes, and help revitalize our 
communities.  In becoming citizens, immigrants demonstrate their strong commitment to 
their new home country by learning English, gaining knowledge about American history 
and government, and swearing allegiance to the United States.  We should be 
encouraging immigrants to become part of our community by gaining legal status and 
becoming citizens, not setting up barriers that block their path and keep them out.   

For all these reasons, I strongly oppose the proposed fee increases and urge USCIS to 
reconsider this proposal, and to seek other sources of funding for its operations, rather 
than add more burdens on immigrants.  Thank you for your consideration. 

Sincerely, 
Andrea Plaza 
Albuquerque, NM