From: mail.relay@mailmanager.net [mailto:mail.relay@mailmanager.net] On Behalf Of Eric 
Fleischmann 
Sent: Monday, April 02, 2007 2:50 PM 
To: Director, Regulatory Management Division 
Subject: Fee Increase Excessive - comment to DHS Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044 

Eric Fleischmann 
82 Craigmoor Road 
West Hartford, CT 06107-1211 

April 2, 2007 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Ave.  NW, 3d Floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

 Director, Regulatory Management Division: 

I am attorney based in Hartford, Connecticut, and practice mainly in the 
field of immigration law. 

The proposal of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services to radically 
increase its fees is unmerited, and would harm many people.  

The USCIS (the "Service") has failed to justify these fee increases, and 
the whole proposal should be withdrawn and reconsidered. 

Despite what seems to be the Service's impression to the contrary, the 
statute does not require that it fund all its operations via fees. Under 
INA sect. 286(m), "fees for providing adjudication and naturalization 
services may be set at a level that will ensure recovery of the full costs 
of providing all such services." 

The authorizing statute limits the fee-funding scope to "providing 
adjudication and naturalization services" and administering the fees.  It 
does not authorize fees to cover other activities. Many of the costs 
anticipated by this fee regulation do not belong in the fee account.  

The Service has chosen to expand its mission beyond adjudication and 
naturalization and enter into the realm of law enforcement.  When the 
Department of Homeland Security was established, Congress consciously and 
deliberately separated the Department's adjudicative arm (USCIS) from its 
enforcement arm (what has become ICE and CBP).  The intent was to keep the 
functions separate.  Even if the agency has strayed from that intent in 
its operations, at a minimum the funding should be kept separate. 

The Service should seek appropriated funds at a level sufficient to pay 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
for the additional services and processes that, in turn, benefit everyone. 
 For example, increased payments to the FBI for fingerprint, name, and 
security checks which benefit national security;  processing of Freedom of 
Information Act requests, for which every other government agency receives 
appropriated funds; agency administration with nine headquarters offices 
and field locations worldwide; and information technology enhancements, 
should not be borne by applicants alone.  In addition, funding for 
Internal Security and Investigative Operations for the investigation of 
misconduct of Federal and contract employees should not benefit from user 
fees.  

The fee increases will effectively impose a means test on the ability of 
immigrants to attain U.S. citizenship, which is contrary to our national 
values.  The United States is built on the principal of equality and 
inherent value of each individual, both native born and immigrant.  We 
need immigrants to sustain our economic system and invest in the American 
dream, and we should not be erecting monetary barriers to their achieving 
U.S. citizenship. 

No amount of technical innovation and no increased amount of revenue will 
overcome an unwillingness to adjudicate on a level playing field.  There 
should be no fee increase until the Service is able to articulate a 
detailed and concrete plan which demonstrates a real commitment to the 
elimination of inconsistent and hostile adjudication.  Such a plan should 
not only include rulemaking and training, but tracking of adjudications 
and a system of accountability. 

In conclusion, the USCIS should improve its level of service, but should 
not increase its fees, which are already too high for many applicants to 
afford. 

Sincerely yours, 

Eric Fleischmann