0 4 / 0 2 / 2 0 0 7  

1 3 : 5 1  

2136393911 

N I L C  

PAGE  0 1 / 0 5  

3435 Wilshire Blvd., Suite 2850 
Ims Angeles, California 90010 
2W 639-3900  ' fax  213639-3911 

Facsimile Cover Lettenr 

P W E  DEUYER THE mLLoWNG PAGES KC 

Receivers Name 

I Organization 

Fax Number 

From: 

Date: 

q-2-17? 

cover p a E  

Time: 

IF THIS BOX IS CHECKED:  0 
The  information contained in this facsimile  message is information ~rotected by  the  attorneyclienl: 
and/or  attorney-wortc product privileges;  It Is intended only for M e  usr! uftrce individual named above 
and the privileges are notwaived by viWe ofthis havlng been sent by bcslrnile.  IF the person amally 
receiving this facsimile or  any  other  reader of  the facsimile  is  not the  named  recipient,  any  use. 
dissemination, distribution, or cupying of the communication is strictly prohibited.  If you have received 
this oommunication in ermr, plaase immediately notify the sender by telephone and return the original 
message to the above address via the U.S. Postal Service.  Thank you. 

NATIONAL 
IMMIGRA~ON 
Law CENTER 
w . n i l c . o r g  

Lor A~crrr! 

HLelDQUelRTIR! 

Suitc ZRSC 
10s Angcler, CA 9001C 
213 639.390C 
fax  21 3 639-391 1 

WASHINGTON.  DC 
11 01  14th Street, Nb 
Suite A,I( 
Washington. DC 20005 
202 216-0261 
(ax  aoz ~ 1 6 . 0 ~ 6 6  

O n n u ~ c  

405 14th Streel 
Suite 140C 
Oakland, CA 94612 
510 663.8281 
fan 510 663.2028 

April 2,2007 

Sent by E-mail to OSComments@dhs.gov. 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
US Cit~zenship and Tmm~gration Services 
Dcpartmmt of Homcland Security 
1 1 1 Massachusetts Ave  NW, 3d floor 
Washington DC 20529. 

Re:  DHS Docket # USCIS-2006-0044 

Proposed rult-  Adjustment of thc Immigration and 
Naturalization Benefit Application and Petition Fee 
Schedule 

On behalf of the National Immigration Law Center, I am writing to strongly 
oppose the proposed increases of immigration and n:~turalization fces 
contained in the proposed n ~ l e  that US Citizenship a-'ld Immigration Services 
(USCTS)  published in the Federal Register on Febru;uy 1,2007.  72 FR 4888 
(Feb. I, 2007)(Troposed  Rule"). 

The National Immigration Law Center is a nonprofil. legal, advocacy center 
that works to protect and promote the rights and opporlunities of low-income 
immigrants and their family members.  Their having acccss to apply for 
naturalization, lawful permanent rcsident status, employment authorization, 
and othcr immigration and naturalization benefits is' a core concern of NTLC. 

Thc extraordinary and unprecedented fee increases cfthe proposed mle would 
have a devastating impact on the ability of low-incolnc immigrants and their 
family members to apply for immigration and natural,ization benefits.  The 
rnagnitudc of the increases, considered by thmselvcs and even more so in 
conjnnction with past increases, cannot be considerem1 fair or reasonable by 
any standard.  Indeed, even under the current fce schedule, low to middle 
income immigants already must sometimes save rnclney for months before 
they can afford the filing fees for many applications. 

To take one example of the drastic increases being p--oposed, the fec for the 
N-400 application for naturalization would jump konn  $330 to $595, an 
increase of over 80 percent.  And tlie new fee would be a 526 percent jncrease 
over the 595  fee for this application just ten years ag],  and almost a ninefold 
jncrcae over the $60 1990 fee, evcn without taking jnto  account thc 
biometries fee that did not exist then. 

Under thc proposed rule fees for most other benefits would go up in a 
comparable fashion.  The proposed incrcasc Tor  the 1-485 adjustment of status 
applicalion i s  particularly outrageous, increasing nearly threefold, from $325 

0 4 / 0 2 / 2 0 0 7  

1 3 : 5 1  

2136393911 

N I L C  

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
US Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Page 2 

to $900.  These incrcases would place huge obstaclc:~ in the way of familics 
seeking to obtain citizenship, pcrrnanmt residence, c'r other critical benefits 
for which they are eligible. 

Moreover, the methods used to arrive at the fee increases appear to include a 
numbcr of flawed assumptions that violatc thc gmerzl principles of the 
Independent Offices Appropriations Act (TOAA), 31 U.S.C. 8 9701, that fees 
must be fair and related to the cost of providing a bnlefit.  While Congress has 
provided that fees collected should ensme recovery rif the full costs of 
providing adjudication and naturalization sewices, including thc costs of 
services provided free of charge to asylum applicants or other immigrants 
(INA 3 286(rn)), the proposed nzle's calculations exc:eed thcsc limits and 
instead scrve to grossly inflate the fce. 

For example, USCTS's  compilation of costs to be offset by fees includes a 
long list of "enhancements" that requirc massive in,v,:stment.  See, c.g., 
Section IV.D.3 of the proposed rule.  While these improvements may be 
desirable, they also will take time to realize, and will provide no bcnefit at all 
to the immigrants who will be forced to invest in them when they apply for 
benefits once a new fee schedule is put in  effect.  Th:se  kind of l o n g - t m  
improvements are precisely the kinds of expenditure; that should come from 
congressional appropriations of public funds, rather Than  from fecs.  To expect 
today's  applicants for immigration benefits to shoulder the costs of every 
long-term improvement that the agency deems desir~ble, d,cspite the fact that 
no benefit will  accrue to than, is wholly unreasonable.  This method of fce 
calculation in effect imposes a tax, rather than a reasc~nabIc fee. 

Amthcr defect in the calculation is illustrated in the rationale for the 
particularly great increase in  the fee for the 1-485 adj ustmcnt of status 
application.  USCIS proposes to have this fcc mcom~?ass the cost of "interim 
benefits"  - adjudication of applications for employm:nt  authorization and, 
advance parole for trips abroad while the adjustment application is pending - 
rather than continuing to charge separate fees for the::c adjudications.  There is 
a kcrnel of merit in the concept underlying thL propr sal -were  the agency to 
providc adjustment applicants with employment authorization and permission 
to travel upon receipt of the 1-485 application for the duration of the time their 
adjustment applications are pending it would greatly streamline costs and 
workload.  But this proposal fails to realize that concl:pt,  instead retaining the 
requirement that adjustment applicants apply for these interim bmefits as 
needed.  Thus the workload remains, and the cost rcn~ains. 

Moreover, Ihe proposcd rulc, by incorporating the co!:t  of "mterim benefits" 
into thc 1-485 fee, would charge all adjustment applicants the estimated cost 
of adjud~cating employment authorization and advanre parole applications, 

0 4 / 0 2 / 2 0 0 7  

1 3 : 5 1  

2136393911 

N I L C  

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
US Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Page 3 

April 2,2007 

although many adjustment applicants never use thesm:  benefits.  For example, 
asylees who adjust are employment authorized incident to their status and do 
not need a work permit while their adjustment app1ic:ations are pending. 
Similarly, children under 14 years of age and elderly applicants may only 
rarely apply for an EAD. In addition, only a small pcrcentagc of adjustment 
applicants apply for advance parole.  Moreover, as the commentary 
recognizes, the demand for these benefits will decline as processing times 
decrease for the underlying adjustment applications.  Thus combining the 
processing costs of the applications for interim bene:its with thc 1-485 
application fee is completely unfair, and violates thc principle of connecting 
the fee to thc cost of providing the benefit to the applicant. 

The proposed rule is also alarming in its trcahnent ol'fce waivers, particularly 
given the high fees that are proposed.  The proposed nzle would eliminate 
waivers for certain applications, based on the erroneou,~ ass~~mption 
that an 
immigrant's inability to pay a high fee implicates the; public charge ground of 
inadmissibility.  This is simply untrue.  The determirlation ofwhethcr an 
individual is likely to become a public charge is a prnspectivc test.  The test 
does not require that an immigrant have large amounts of extra cash on hand 
such as would be needed under the proposed mle.  Moreover, many 
immigrants who apply for adjustment are exempt from the public charge 
ground o f  exclusion, such as refugees and asylees.  Currently many 
immigrants must struggle and save to pay the currenl fees, and unquestionably 
the gigantic increases being proposed would pose a major obstacle, delaying 
or preventing their applying'for permanent residence 

Thc proposed fee increases are so high that they compel a recognition that 
many pcople will be unable to afford the fees, and thn:  agency should be 
expanding rather than contracting the use of fee waivmers.  The proposed rule 
should allow for individual determinations as to whelher a fce waiver should 
be granted for all types of applications. 

As apolicy matter, immigration and citizenship arc public goods that benefit 
our entire country and that we as a nation should help pay for.  Immigrants 
bring their talent and hard work to our economy.  They pay taxes and help 
rcvitalize our communities.  In becoming citizens, immigrants demonstrate 
their strong commitment to their new homc country by learning English, 
gaining knowledge about American history and gove~nmmt, and swearing 
allegiance to the United States.  It is little wonder tha~ newlv naturalized 
citizens, eager to participate in our democracy, consistently vote at higher 
rates than other citizens.  We should be encoura~ng immiprants to bccome 
part of our community by gaining legal status and becoming citizens, not 
setting up barriers that block their path and keep thex out. 

-  - 

, -  

- 

- 

0 4 / 0 2 / 2 0 0 7  

1 3 : 5 1  

2136393911 

N I L C  

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
US Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Pagc 4 

April 2,2007 

For all these reasons, the proposal to increasc immigration and naturalization 
fees is legally flawed, misguided, and counterprod,uctive. Wc urge USCIS to 
reconsider this proposal, and to scck other sources of funding for 
improvements and other operations, rather than add Inore burdens on 
i,mmi~ants. Thank you for your consideration. 

Sincerely, 

Executive Director