-----Original Message----- 
From: mail.relay@mailmanager.net [mailto:mail.relay@mailmanager.net] On 
Behalf Of Mariano Descalzi 
Sent: Thursday, March 01, 2007 3:48 PM 
To: USCIS Comments 
Subject: DHS Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044 - USCIS Fee Increase Comment 

Mariano Descalzi 
915 S. Colorado Blvd. 
Denver, CO 80246-2401 

March 1, 2007 

USCIS Comments 

Dear USCIS Comments: 

I am writing to you as an international educator in opposition to the 
February 1, 2007, proposed rule "Adjustment of the Immigration and 
Naturalization Benefit Application and Petition Fee Schedule."  The 
United States cannot close it's borders to the international community 
with these indirect barriers. It is already much more difficult and 
expensive to get student visa's to the US in comparison to other 
countries, such as; Canada, UK and Australia. Why is the government 
pushing to increase fees 

when we have to do exactly the opposite to compete with other 
democratic 

and modern countries?  

The U.S. has been loosing it's competitive edge in the education 
business since Sept. 11 and this petition will only hurt it more. Other 
countries 

are being more and more aggressive in finding ways to lure 
international 

students to their schools. The U.S. government is going the other 
direction and taking an almost "arrogant" position towards the 
international student community. 

USCIS must reconsider the role of appropriated funds to meet the 
administrative needs of the agency.  I ask that fees be reduced to the 
actual cost of processing the application or petition.   

Thank you for your consideration. We hope you agree that the United 
States' international reputation in education is critical to the 
country's world wide interests in promoting democracy, peace and a 
better understanding among cultures. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sincerely, 

Mariano Descalzi 
303-748-6301 

This message has been verified by CapwizXC as authentic and sent by 
this 

individual.  Authentication ID: [37puiwv8] 

Changed message text: 93.3%