April 2, 2007 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
US Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Ave. NW, 3rd floor 
Washington DC 20529. 

RE:  DHS Docket # USCIS-2006-0044 
Proposed rule— Adjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit Application 
and Petition Fee Schedule 

On behalf of Bay Area Legal Aid, we are writing to strongly oppose the proposed changes in  
immigration and naturalization fees, the elimination of VAWA self-petitioning fees, and changes 
to the fee waiver system that US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) proposed on 
February 1, 2007.   

Bay Area Legal Aid, the largest non-profit legal services program in the San Francisco Bay Area, 
provides direct legal services to low-income individuals in domestic violence, sexual assault, 
immigration, housing, public benefits and health access-related matters through offices in 
Alameda, Contra Costa, Marin/Napa, San Francisco, San Mateo and Santa Clara counties.  
Through our regional offices as well as through court-based temporary restraining order clinics 
we operate, we represent hundreds of abused immigrants each year, and while some are able to 
maintain employment during their crises, the vast majority of them at least temporarily suffer 
from economic hardship, particularly as they take the initial steps in trying to escape their 
abusive relationships. Assisting these individuals in becoming financially self-sufficient is one of 
our greatest priorities, since one of the primary reasons that domestic violence victims remain in 
(or return to) abusive relationships is their economic dependence upon their abusers. 

Eliminating Fees for VAWA Self-Petitioners 

Despite the fact that it would appear to benefit the immigrant survivors of domestic violence with 
whom we work, we oppose eliminating the self-petition fee, particularly in relationship to 
eliminating fee waivers as an option outside of the self-petitioning context, particularly because 
of the insurmountable obstacles the elimination of fee waivers would present in their obtaining 
other immigration benefits as they seek to legalize their status and improve their financial 
situation, such as I-765 employment authorization requests and/or I-485 adjustment of status 
petitions.   

In addition, many victims of domestic violence gain status outside of the self-petitioning context, 
including through family-based immigration and employment.  Further, self-petitioners who 
separate from their abusers may find protection in families and communities that will be harmed 
by the general fee increases, which in turn harms self-petitioners.  Finally, some of our self-
petitioners can afford to pay the fees. Since USCIS argues that it needs fees to ensure efficient 
adjudication, self-petitioners who can afford to pay the fees should do so.  Those that cannot 
should be able to request a fee waiver. 

Fair Fee and Waiver Structure 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What self-petitioners need, like other immigrants, are a fee structure and a generous fee waiver 
system that allow a consideration of each applicant’s individual financial reality. These principles 
should apply not just to self-petitioning, but to fees for work authorization, adjustment of status 
and other matters associated with obtaining self-petitioning status and permanent residence. This 
is how the current system works, and it works well for self-petitioners. Eliminating or restricting 
access to fee waivers for all related applications will undermine Congress’ goal to protect and 
provide secure status to immigrant survivors of domestic violence and other crimes. 

USCIS’ suggestion that public charge concerns make fee waivers inappropriate for those seeking 
adjustment of status is inaccurate.  Congress didn’t just mandate access to self-petitioning for 
domestic violence survivors, it also smoothed the path to lawful permanent residence, including 
relaxing public charge considerations at the adjustment phase.  Self-petitioners, those seeking 
special immigrant juvenile status, U and T visa applicants, refugees, asylees and others may be 
able to overcome public charge concerns even if they obtain fee waivers, particularly if they are 
able to obtain the employment authorization that is a critically important tool in their achieving 
financial self-sufficiency.   

USCIS also argues that regular family-based petitioners should be ineligible for fee waivers 
because they must submit affidavits of support. Given the visa quota system and processing 
backlogs, many regular family-based immigrant applicants who need fee waivers at the initial 
phase may be able to overcome public charge concerns by the time USCIS adjudicates their 
adjustment applications.  This approach, in fact, comports with USCIS own instructions on 
considering public charge as a prospective test.  

Applicant choice, not inaccurate USCIS assumptions, should determine access to the fee waiver 
system.  USCIS should retain the existing fee waiver system, not restrict it.   

Do Not Erect a Financial Fence to Regularizing Status 
Many immigrants already struggle to pay immigration fees. The proposed increases in these fees, 
sometimes double the current fee, will create a financial fence to legalizing thousands of 
immigrants.  Drastically enhanced fees, coupled with restrictions on fee waivers, will force many 
hard-working immigrants into undocumented status.  These otherwise-eligible immigrants will 
become more vulnerable to exploitation and crime victimization and less able to contribute to our 
communities and formal economy.  This result confounds attempts at immigration reform by 
forcing people to become undocumented instead of encouraging them to gain secure legal status. 

USCIS should wait to see what Congress enacts in the coming year before suggesting new fees. 
The new law may create a new stream of money.  Moreover, USCIS should not rely solely on 
fees to support its operations. It should ask Congress for direct support instead, which Congress 
has provided in the past.  Many organizations writing in opposition to the fee changes today 
would likely support your direct appropriations efforts. 

For all these reasons, the proposal to increase immigration fees and change the current fee waiver 
system is imprudent and ineffective in accomplishing the goals the DHS.  We urge USCIS to 
reconsider this proposal, to retain the existing fee waiver system and fees for VAWA self-
petitioners, and to seek other sources of funding for its operations, rather than shift the burden to 
selected groups of immigrants.  Thank you for your consideration. 

Sincerely, 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BAY AREA LEGAL AID 

Shawn Roberts 
Staff Attorney 
Regional Coordination for Domestic Violence and Immigration 

50 Fell St., 1st Fl. 
San Francisco, CA 94102 
(415) 354-6328 
sroberts@baylegal.org

Marilia Zellner 
Registered Legal Services Attorney 

2287 So. El Camino Real 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
(650) 358-0745 ext. 6375 
mzellner@baylegal.org