From: David Middleton [mailto:david@allianceartistmanagement.com]  
Sent: Saturday, February 24, 2007 3:55 PM 
To: OSComments 
Cc: whitehouse@senate.gov; Reed@senate.gov; kennedy@house.gov 
Subject: USCIS-2006-0044 - Please, no fee increase! 

To Whom It May Concern: 

On behalf of the ensembles managed by Alliance Artist Management, we submit these comments 
in response to the proposed rule published in 72 Fed. Reg. 4888-4915 (February 1, 2007) to 
adjust the immigration and naturalization benefit application and petition fee schedule. 

We object to the proposed increase of the filing fees for nonimmigrant worker petitions. The 
proposed increase in the Form I-129 and Form I-824 filing fees will be financially burdensome. 
Before U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) contemplates any price increase, 
regular processing procedures must be improved.  

Delays and unpredictability in visa processing have made it increasingly difficult for arts 
management agencies to present international artists in the United States. USCIS should not 
consider any fee increase without first improving regular processing procedures in the following 
ways: 

Reduce the maximum processing period for O & P petitions to 30 days. 
Receipt notices from USCIS often indicate that processing periods for regular petitions will range 
anywhere between 30 and 120 days. This time span is simply too ambiguous and lengthy to 
accommodate booking and presenting foreign guest artists for 
performances with a fixed date. To engage foreign guest artists, and more freely facilitate 
international cultural exchange, the nonprofit performing arts community must be able to rely 
upon a 30-day maximum processing period.  

Improve the reliability and consistency in adjudication of O and P petitions. 
Current USCIS policies and practices result in inefficient processing of O and P visas - causing 
delay, expense, and unwarranted requests for further evidence. USCIS must implement uniform 
policies, procedures, and training for efficient 
processing of petitions.  

Implement uniform policies to improve the traditional expedite service.  
The USCIS has made expedited processing available at no additional fee in cases where 
petitioners, through no fault of their own, experience an unforeseen emergency, and where failure 
to expedite the petition will result in serious harm, economically or otherwise, to the petitioner. 
However, the USCIS standards for granting expedited processing requests are unclear. The 
traditional expedite is not helpful unless there are clear, uniform policies appropriately followed 
and administered by USCIS. 

We are grateful for the opportunity to comment on this proposed fee increase. We oppose the 
proposed fee increase and urge the USCIS to demonstrably improve processing of regular 
petitions. 

Thank you for your consideration. 

Sincerely,  
David Middleton 

 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Vice President 
Alliance Artist Management 
PH: 401-253-0043 / FX: 401-253-0448 
david@allianceartistmanagement.com