To whom it may concern: 

I would like to add my thoughts on the proposed visa filing fee increase for 
Form I-129 and Form I-824. As an agent who represents foreign musicians here 
in the U.S. this fee increase would be nearly devastating for my business 
and make contracting with U.S. presenters extremely difficult. The process 
is ALREADY very cumbersome and expensive considering the unrealistic 
requirements and the usual need to expedite the visa application.  These are 
uniquely talented artists that have achieved a level of success that enables 
them to perform beyond their native borders, but that success isn't always 
reflected monetarily. The investment of time and money in preparing U.S. 
visa is significant for the artist, his/her management and myself. The time 
and effort required on my part and often times presenters is very different 
than if we presented U.S. artists. Creating one more hardship such as the 
fee increase would very easily affect the feasibility in bringing these 
artists to the U.S. and have a serious impact on my business and U.S. 
presenters. The issue of U.S. visa difficulty has long been a source of 
frustration in the music community and has caused many last minute 
cancellations. This difficulty simply doesn't exist when my artists and U.S. 
artists perform in Europe and Australia. I completely understand the need 
for security but before the USCIS contemplates any price increase, regular 
processing procedures must be improved. 

USCIS should not consider a fee increase without first improving regular 
processing procedures in the following ways: 

Reduce the maximum processing period for O and P petitions to 30 days. 
Receipt notices from USCIS often indicate that processing periods will range 
anywhere between 30 and 120 days.  This time span is simply too ambiguous 
and lengthy to accommodate booking and presenting foreign guest artists for 
performances with a fixed date. To engage foreign guest artists, and more 
freely facilitate international cultural exchange, the nonprofit performing 
arts community must be able to rely upon a 30-day maximum processing period. 

Improve the reliability and consistency in adjudication of O and P 
petitions. Current USCIS policies and practices result in inefficient 
processing of O and P visas - causing delay, expense, and unwarranted 
requests for further evidence. USCIS must implement uniform policies, 
procedures, and training for efficient processing of petitions. 

Implement uniform policies to improve the traditional expedite service.  The 
USCIS has made traditional expedite processing available at no additional 
fee to petitioners who experience an unforeseen emergency. Since 
implementing the Premium Process Service, the USCIS has allowed nonprofit 
organizations to remain eligible for the traditional expedite.  However, the 
standards for granting expedited processing requests are unclear.  The 
traditional expedite is not helpful unless there are clear, uniform policies 
appropriately followed and administered by USCIS. 

I appreciate the opportunity to comment on these fee increase proposals. The 
artists I represent (as well as many others) provide a unique service that 
cannot be measured in usual ways. These artists are not unknown (usually) 
and should not be considered security threats in any way. For our country to 
lose the exposure to international talent would be a tremendous shame, while 
other countries would still benefit by having reasonable procedures for 
foreign artists. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
thank you, 

Greg St. Martin 
Owner/ Agent 
Martin Street Music 
7485 S.W. Aloma Way #1 
Portland, OR   97223 
503-293-0378 p/f 
503-803-4440 c 
gstmartin@comcast.net 

U.S. booking: 
James Keelaghan   www.keelaghan.com 
Compadres  James Keelaghan & Oscar Lopez 
Lynn Miles   www.lynnmilesmusic.com 
Jeff Lang   www.jefflang.com.au 
John Doan  www.johndoan.com