From: Caridad Merino [mailto:caridad_gal@hotmail.com]  
Sent: Thursday, February 01, 2007 3:11 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: USCIS-2006-0044, SAY NO TO A FEE INCREASE!. 

Dear Sir: 
I am hereby making use of my First Amendment Right, "Freedom of Expression" 
so here it goes: 
It is with great sadness that I see how millions of people are being picked 
on for the wrong reasons.  This increase would only hurt the poor people 
that work so hard to bring their relatives to the US through legal means.  
Not every body has the $905 to spend on a I-485 or the $595 to spend on 
Naturalization Applications.  You advocate for legal immigration, people 
have to endure being apart from their loves for many years before there is a 
visa available for their relatives to immigrate to the US, unless the 
Petitioners are US Citizens, and yet, you penalize them even more for 
wanting to do the right thing. 

I still remember when I came from Cuba as a 16 year old adolescent, my 
family was so poor we had to wear used clothes.  We had to save all the 
money we had to pay for immigration forms and I know that there are millions 
of hard working people in that same situation today.  Why does not the 
Government reduce their military budget instead, or better yet, use part of 
that budget to cover the immigration budget that you so much need. 

You say that this increase in fees will make immigration services more 
efficient.  Is this a joke?  Last time I went to an immigration conference 
during the conference we were told that the National Service Center would be 
improved.  Have you ever tried talking to one of the "human recorders" they 
have posing as immigration customer service representatives, as they would 
literally repeat what they read from a one page script that they memorize 
without even thinking and at the end they do not know how to answer even the 
simplest of questions. 

I think that people should be charged for other things, example: info pass 
appointments but not for an I-485 or N-400 Applications.  You are basically 
making it impossible for people to eat, clothe themselves and pay 
immigration fees.  You mean to tell me that people would have to stop paying 
their mortgage, their car insurance, their kid's school in order to obtain 
an immigration benefit.  I am sure that if our founding fathers came to life 
and saw what your are trying to do they would turn over on their graves and 
die again. 

I am at a lost for words, really. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Yours truly, 

Caridad M. Merino