CIS 

F-~:XW %Jl?s/CerS,  ,\UL -30% 

To: 

,,ne: 

Re: 

Far:  W-Q. ~ h b . 5 3 7 b   :  3 dlU C o $ d  

z2z. G I

.

 b ? 3 5  

t

:

C: 

 w / b z  103 

6 e n t

For Review  0 Please Comment 

Please Reply 

Please Recycle 

Comments; 

Education and Advocacy Program -Emergency Response Frogtam.  Immigration and Refugee Program  Technical Resources 

? I b  Maryland Ave.,  NE, H O E ,  Washington, DC 20002 

202-544-2350 

 
March 5,2007 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
11 1 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, 3rd Floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

Dear USCTS Regulatory Management Division: 

Chnrch World Service, Immigration and Refugee Program (CWSIIRF')  is a humanitarian, faith-based 
organization that works to welcome the stranger, relieve the weary and promote justice for the 
oppressed. This legacy is carried out though our member denominations and our refugee resettlement 
affiliates. 

As an organization concerned with the well-being of rehgees and immigrants, we are concerned about 
the recently proposed increases in USCIS service fees. Such increases will disrupt family unity, further 
victimize vulnerable populations, and be economically infeasible for low-income immigrants. While 
we agree that service quality should be improved to eliminate the backlog and remedy misplaced cases 
(up to  110,000 as estimated by the GAO), this burden should not be borne solely by immigrants who 
are already struggling to cover agency payments. 

Division of Families 

We are especially disappointed with the burden that the proposed increases would place on families. 
Families are the backbone of our society. Our immigration polrcies should never prevent a mother 
from being with her children, or a husband from joining his wife. The integrity of families should not 
be sacrificed for business convenience. We oppose all fee increases that would jeopardize family 
reunification, noting particula~ly I-129F, 1-130, I-600IA, and 1-187. The 1-817 application for family 
unity benefits would increase by 120 percent and the applications for a relative and fianc6 would 
increase by 87 percent ($190 to $355) and 156 percent (170 to 455) respectively. 

Under this new fee structure, an individual earning minimum wage would have to save an entire 
month's pay in order to 61e an adjustment of status application. A family living slightly above poverty 
level would have to pay almost 8 percent of their total income in immigration fees. Parents should not 
have to choose which child can apply for citizenship versus another. 

Immlaratlan and Rnfuaee Proaram 
liseph S.  ~oberson,-~irecttri 

475 Riverside Drive, Suite 700 - New Vork,  NY 10115 -  (212) 870-3300 

Abandonment: of Vulnerable Paadations 

We commend USCIS for eliminating fees for certain interim benefits and initial applications for T- 
visas (1-914) and VAWA qualifying individuals. However, these vulnerable populations would still 
suffer from the proposed changes. Victims of human trafficking and gender-based violence are often in 
desperate financial situations. Should these increases take effect, many could not afford to adjust their 
status, apply for work permits, or reunify their families, and could face deportation or elongated 
detention. 

Rather than enacting these fee Increases, USCIS should work with Congress to create an alternative 
and permanent funding stream for Immigration services. No law prohibits USCIS from diversifying its 
revenue through congressional appropriations, which has been accomplished in the past. Officials 
should also take into account various alternatives to detention and deportation that would prove more 
cost effective arid less l~anllful to families and communities in the United States, 

Economic Infeasibility 

Many of the proposed fee increases are excessive, unrealistic, and do not reflect immigrants'  diverse 
economic situations. As Congress considers comprehensive immigration reform, we advocate against 
these fee increases which would discourage individuals from residing legally in this country. The 
justification by USCIS officials that this is a "business decision" does not coincide with the nature of 
goverwent services, which lack the price-control mechanisms present in competitive markets. 

The proposed changes would increase the fee to adjust from temporary to permanent residency by 661. 
percent (from $180 to $1,3 70). The fee for a naturalization application, which has already increased by 
400 percent under the Bush Administration, would increase again by 80 percent (from $330 to 
$595). Su,ch large marginal increases are unprecedented, unnecessary and detrimental to the pursuit of 
the American dream. Immigrants paying these fees are law abiding individuals who pay taxes, 
contribute to their communities, speak English and know American histozy.  We all benefit from 
increases in legal immigration and citizenship - econoniically and culturally. lrnmigmts should be 
encouraged, not hindered from applying for legal status. 

The United States should provide refuge and opportunity - welcoming "the  tired, the poor, the huddled 
masses yearning to breathe free."  In the name of families, vulnerable populations and those seeking a 
better life, please do not enact the proposed USCIS fee increases. 

Rev. Joseph Roberson 
Directox, Immigration and Refugee Program 
Church World Service 
Jroberson@churchworldse~~ice.org