From: Kerby Lovallo [mailto:kl@newworldclassics.com]  
Sent: Tuesday, March 27, 2007 11:07 AM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: USCIS-2006-0044 Comments 

Dear Sir or Madam: 

Regarding the proposed fee increases for processing of visa applications - -129 Form (O 
& P Visa applications):  currently $190, proposed $320 
I-824 Form: currently $200, proposed $340. 

This represents an unfair and unjustified fee increase for basic services performed 
slowly and sloppily by the USCIS, that are necessary for business.  When the 
processing fees were raised the previous time, processing times went up and mistakes 
on the part of the USCIS went up, as well.  The USCIS has done a bad job processing 
these visas for years – throwing money at the problem will not help.   

USCIS should not consider a fee increase without first improving regular 
processing procedures in the following ways: 

Reduce the maximum processing period for O and P petitions to 30 days. Receipt 
notices from USCIS often indicate that processing periods will range anywhere between 
30 and 120 days.  This time span is simply too ambiguous and lengthy to accommodate 
booking and presenting foreign guest artists for performances with a fixed date. To 
engage foreign guest artists, and more freely facilitate international cultural exchange, 
the nonprofit performing arts community must be able to rely upon a 30-day maximum 
processing period. 

Improve the reliability and consistency in adjudication of O and P petitions. Current 
USCIS policies and practices result in inefficient processing of O and P visas - causing 
delay, expense, and unwarranted requests for further evidence. USCIS must implement 
uniform policies, procedures, and training for efficient processing of petitions. 

Implement uniform policies to improve the traditional expedite service.  The USCIS has 
made traditional expedite processing available at no additional fee to petitioners who 
experience an unforeseen emergency. However, the standards for granting expedited 
processing requests are unclear.  The traditional expedite is not helpful unless there are 
clear, uniform policies appropriately followed and administered by USCIS. 

Sincerely, 

Kerby 
Mr. Kerby Lovallo, Director 
New World Classics

  ٠   

Telephone (860) 870-1583   

 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
kl@newworldclassics.com   ٠   www.newworldclassics.com 
27 Snipsic Lake Rd, Ellington CT 06029 USA 
Representing Europa Galante with Fabio Biondi, I Musici from Rome, Estonian 
Philharmonic Chamber Choir, The Hilliard Ensemble, Rick Benjamin’s Paragon Ragtime 
Orchestra, Shirim Klezmer Orchestra, The Mark of Zorro film with Original Score 
Scott Joplin’s opera, Treemonisha, Zoppé – an Italian Family Circus, Rick Benjamin, Pops 
Conductor