914-499-2070  >>  Fax 

bA(:SIMIT.F,  'I'RANSMI'I'TAL S A k E T  

- 

- - 
To: 

fhcctot., i<c{~lt:~ron 
- 

;\lan;ixcmcnt 1)iyiaioll 

FAX NUMBER: 

------  -, 

(866) 406-5.170 

-- 
COMPANY: 
I'SCIS 

From: 

J;~crluclir~r Ilr rmatl 

Date: 

- - .- 

.\pit 2,2007 
.-  - - 
TOTAL NO.  OF PAGES INCLUDING COVER: 

- -  - - -  - - - -   3 
PHONE NUMBER: 

SENDER'S REFERENCE NUMBER: 

- - .- 

- - - -  

- -  1)HS 130ckcr NO. I 'SC:IS  2006  0044 

YOUR REFERENCE NUMBER: 

Re: 

FCC incrcasc 

- 

' 

0 

I

,

I 

0 I

l

l

 I 

I

l

 v ,   0 l'l.,: 

l

\.I 

1<1,'1,1 

] > I . ,   , > I {  

It1 ,,, (  ] , I  

NOTESICOMMENTS: 

-. 

 
914-499-2070  >>  Fax 

April 2,2007 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
United States Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
11 1 Massachusetts Ave., NW 3rd Floor 
Washington, D.C. 20529 

RE: DHS Dockct No. USCIS 2006-0044 

Dear Director of Regulatory Management: 

1 write in strong opposition to the proposal by the United States Citizenship and 
Immigration Services (USCIS) to increase the fees for starting the naturalization process. 
Under the USCIS' proposal, the fee for filing the Form N-400 would increase from $330 
to $595, and the biometrics fee would increase from $70 to $80, resulting in a total 
increase h m  $400 to $675.  The proposed 69% fee hike is an unfair burden for 
hardworking newcomers who wish to become U.S. citizens and participate in everything 
that this nation has to offer. 

h e n t l y ,  many newcomer families have limited resources, and they work tirelessly to 
save up the money required to pay the current $400 naturalization application cost. 
According to data from the U.S.  Census, about one-third (36%) of non-citizen households 
have annual incomes that are less than $25,000.  Family members often want to pursue 
U.S. citizenship by applying for naturalization at the same time.  With the increase 
proposed by the USCIS, a family of four would conkont a bill amounting to $2,700.  An 
exorbitant price tag should not stand in the way of families seeking to realize the 
Amcrican Dream. 

I do not oppose applicants paying a fee to apply for U.S. citizenship and commend the 
USCIS for taking the steps to improve customer services and processing times.  1 also 
understand that the agency believes it n e d s  to raise fees to pay for major infrastructure 
investments and process enhancements, such as improvements in the timeliness of 
background checks, modernization of its outdated business systems, facilities 
improvements and enhancements in its personnel training and recruitment programs. 
However, placing the full costs of these investments on the back of our nation's legal 
permanent residents is driving fees to a level that immigrants simply cannot afford. 

I urge the USCIS to work with the Presidmt and Congress to obtain appropriations to 
supplement fee revenue to cover costs of major USCIS expenses such as infrastructure 
investments, process enhancements and capital improvements.  In the past, Congress has 
appropriated monies to assist the USCIS in facing challenges such as its application 
processing backlog.  The USCIS believes it needs to make significant investments to 
build an Immigration Service for the 21"  Century.  This is precisely the type of challenge 
that should be met through the partnership between applicants paying a reasonable fee 
and the appropriation of Congressional funding. 

u s i  l c l 0 4  

914-499-2070  >>  Fax 

Immigants who apply  for U.S. citizctrship arc cager to demonstrate thcir commitmcr~t lo 
this country by becoming full participants in our nation's  civic lilt.  If thcy cannot 
hecotne U.S. citizerrs hecnusc of an unhir fee hike, wc will  all lose iln oppo~tunity to 
strengthen and revitalize our democracy.  Our nation has a tratlilion  of wclco~iiing 
newcomers b~cilusc ol'thcir  contributio~is to our econclmic and social progress. 'lhc 
IISCIS'  propiised  fcc incrcasc is corrtrary to thc spirit ol'this tradilion and sentis 
newcomers the wrong message ilt a time whct~ (hey arc seeking to embracc 
11,s. citizenship.  I urge you to halt tllc proposccl naturalization  fcc incl-ease, n~id seek 
appropriated  tilnding lo help cover the ilivesttncnls the IJSC1IS nccds to pmvidc quillity 
so-viccs at an nlli)rdablc pricc. 

Tlia~lk you for your cansicicration uf rrly  views. 

Sinccrcly,