CENT  COMM  CHG 

PAGE  0 1 / 0 4  

To:  Director. Regulatory 
Man,aqernent Division 

From:  Nicola Wells 

US Citizensh,ip and Immigration 
Services 

Department  of Homsla,na  Security 

Fax: 8 6 6   4 6 6 - 5 3 7 0  

Pagel:  5 

Phom: 

Re: 

Uate:  3/31/07 

CC: 

X Urgent 

For Rwlew 

Please Comment 

Please Reply 

Please Recycle 

CENT  COMM  CHG 

March 28, 2007 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
US Citizenship and Immigration S h c e s  
Department of Homeland Sccurity 
11 1 Massachusetts Ave. NW, 3Kl floor 
Washington DC 20529 
u

a
$ !2eO& *644 

s

,

Proposed  rule-Adjustment 
Application and Petition Fee Schedule 

of  the  Immigration  and  Naturalization  Benefit 

The Fair Immigration Reform Movement (FIRM), a project of the Center For  Community 
Change (CCC), is led by low-income immigrant and non-immigrant grassroots 
co~vmunity organizations working for immigration rcfom and immigrant rights. The 
coalition consists of organizing networks, statewide immigrant rights coalitions, and 
faith-based and low-incornc groups, and works in partnership with national organizations. 

Finn  strongly  opposcs the  increase to  immigration and  naturalization fees that  USCIS 
proposed on Fcbruary 1,2007. 

A large proporlion of the immigrants and rehgccs with whom  we work on a daily basis 
alrcady struggles to pay  immigration fees.  A  very significant increase in these  Fees  by 
USCIS  would  put  up  barriers  for  immigrants  secking to  obtain  permanent  residency 
status and become U.S. citizens.  Firm supports creating opportunities for immigrants to 
further  contribute  to  our  Nation  whilc  achieving  their  goals.  These  increases  are 
extremely detrimental to these objcctivcs. 

The  Fee  incrcase  for  naturalization is  particularly  problematic.  The  cost  to  apply  for 
citizenship has risen  h r n  $95 to  $400 in  total  fees at the  present  time,  representing a 
fourfold  increase over the  past  eight years.  A  further increase  of  70% to  $675 would 
create enomnous barriers to naturalization for immigrants, a large number of whom work 
in minimum-wage jobs. 

Particularly alarming is the proposed  increase for filing  for adjustment of status, which 
puts immigrants on the road to  citizenship and further contribution to U.S.  society.  That 
application has risen from $130 in  1998 to $325 today, in addition to $75 for biometries. 
The proposcd  rule  would  increase the  price  to  $905  in  addition  to  $80 for b~ometrics. 
These mle changes would bring to  nearly $1,000 the  cost for an immigrant to  obtain a 
g c r n  card  and  start the  five-year waiting period  for citizenship.  For many minimum- 

1536 U. Sacct,N.W..  Washington, D.C. 20007 a Ph: (877)  777-1536 * Fx. (202) 387- 4891 
www fairimmigration.org 

 
CENT  COMM  CHG 

wage  immigrant  workers and  especially  those  who  earn  loo  much  to  qualify for  a  fee 
waiver but too littlc to pay these fees, the increase effsctivcly puts citizenship out of their 
reach.  Further,  the  effect  of  t h ~ s  incrsasc  on  families with  several  children would  be 
particularly tragic bccausc of thc combined cost for family mcmbers. 

The proposed waiver system under this new fee structure would restrict the availability of 
fee waivers to certain types of applicants, thereby terminating access to many ind~viduals 
and  families who cannot afford filing fees.  USCIS statcs as its rationale for this change 
the  public  charge  ground  for  inadmissibility.  However,  the  public  chargc  ground  for 
inadmissibiltty does  not  apply  to  individuals  filing for  adjustmmt  of  status  including 
asylecs,  applicants  under  section  202  NACARA,  HRJFA,  Or  regishy.  Nonetheless, 
USCIS  seeks to  terminate  the  fee waiver  system  for these  asylees, some  of  whom  are 
indigent  and  need  these  waivers  in  ordcr  to  clear  immi~ation hurdles  and  become 
productive members of society. 

Further, Firm observes that under this new proposed rule change, VAWA self-petitioncrs 
would be required  to  pay  the  fee  for  adjustment  of status while their  self-petitions and 
applications  for  T  visas  would  be  waived.  This  incongruence  in  the  proposed  fee 
structure is at odds with the humanitwan conccrns that underlie the fee exemption for I- 
360s filed under VOWA. 

FIRM agrees with USCTS that it i s  necessary to improve service.  The backlog of months 
and in some cases years for processing applications dearly needs to be improved.  The 
Government Accountability Office (GAO) reported that the agency lost track of  1 10,000 
files nceded  to process citizenship cases.  Therefore, FIRM congratulates USCIS efforts 
to improve its services.  Nonetheless, we belicvc that it is counterproductive to placc the 
entire burden of paying for such irnprovernents on  the hacks of immigrants struggling to 
pay agency costs. 

There are other mechanisms through which. USCIS could cover its costs. No laws require 
USCIS  to  fund  its  operations  through  fees,  and  no  laws  prevmt  USCTS  from  asking 
Congress for appropriations.  In  the past, USCIS has sought and received Congressional 
funding.  Section  286(m)  of  the  Immigration  and  Nationality  Act  (8  USC  section 
1356(m)) states that agency fees "may be  set at a  level  that  will  ensure recovery of the 
full,  costs  of  providing  all  such  services."  A  fee-funded  stnzcture  is  by  no  means 
mandatory.  some  opponents  of  immigration  state  that  the  costs  of  adjustment  and 
naturalization sllould not be placed  on the backs of taxpayers. However, immigrants are 
hard working and contribute tax revmuc to the United States.  Allowing them to integrate 
into U.S. society will  give t h m  an even greater connection to this country in which they 
are contributing these tax dollars. 

The benefits of legal  immigration and citizenship serve our  entire country.  Immigrants 
are  the  engine  of  our  economy  without  which  many  U.S.  industries  would  collapse. 

1536 U. Strcct, N.W.  Washington, W.C. 20007  Ph: (877) 777-1 536 . Fx: (202) 387- 4891 

www.fairirnrnigration.org 

CENT  COMM  CHG 

I 

Through thcir tax dollars and bard work, immigrants help revitalize our com~nunities and 
keep  our  Nation's  industries running.  Facilitating  a  reachable  path  to  citizenship  for 
immigrants allows them to build  strong ties to their new home, to learn English, to  gain 
knowledge of American history  and government,  and  to swcar allegiance to  the United 
States of America.  immigration policies should encourage immigrants to reintegrate into 
our community by gaining legal status and becoming contributing citizens, not to remain 
in the shadows. 

For the aforementioned reasons, proposals to drnmatically increase immigration fces are 
counterproductivc  and  dctrirnental  to  our  Nation.  FlRM  strongly  urges  USCTS  to 
reconsider this proposal and to seek other sourccs of funding for its operations instead of 
placmg  additional burdms  on  the  shoulders  o f  immigrants who  are trying  to  bccomo 
engaged members of society. 

We hope  that  the  Department  of Homeland  Security will  give serious consideration  to 
these concerns before implementing a fee increase. If you have any questions about these 
comments, please  contact me  at  (334)  202-1815, rstolz@communitychange.org. Thank 
you  For your considcration. 

Executjve Director 

(!----- 

1536 U. S'ucct, N.W.  Washington, D.C. 20007  Ph: (877)  777-1536  9 Fx: (202) 387- 4891 
www.fainmmigration.org