From: schroeder@Colbertartists.com [mailto:schroeder@Colbertartists.com]  
Sent: Thursday, March 22, 2007 5:33 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: DHS No. USCIS-2006-0044 

Director Regulatory Management Division U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, 3rd Floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

Dear Director U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, 

On behalf of Colbert Artists Management, Inc. and the audiences 
we serve, I submit these comments in response to the proposed 
rule published in 72 Fed. Reg. 4888-4915 (February 1, 2007) to 
adjust the immigration and naturalization benefit application 
and petition fee schedule. 

I am opposed to the proposed increase of the filing fees for 
nonimmigrant worker petitions. The proposed increase in the Form 
I-129 and Form I-824 filing fees will be financially burdensome 
to the musicians we represent and the nonprofit performing arts 
organizations who hire them. Before the USCIS contemplates any 
price increase, regular processing procedures must be improved. 

USCIS should not consider a fee increase without first improving 
regular processing procedures in the following ways: 

Reduce the maximum processing period for O and P petitions to 30 
days. Receipt notices from USCIS often indicate that processing 
periods will range anywhere between 30 and 120 days. This time 
span is simply too ambiguous and lengthy to accommodate booking 
and presenting foreign guest artists for performances with a 
fixed date. To engage foreign guest artists, and more freely 
facilitate international cultural exchange, the nonprofit 
performing arts community must be able to rely upon a 30-day 
maximum processing period. 

Improve the reliability and consistency in adjudication of O and 
P petitions. Current USCIS policies and practices result in 
inefficient processing of O and P visas - causing delay, 
expense, and unwarranted requests for further evidence. USCIS 
must implement uniform policies, procedures, and training for 
efficient processing of petitions. 

Improve the quality of customer service. From personal 
experience, the customer service representatives of the USCIS 
have proven to be unhelpful, uninformed, and rude in many cases. 
It is unfortunate to have a customer service department if it 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
only increases the stress and confusion of the visa application 
process. 

Implement uniform policies to improve the traditional expedite 
service. The USCIS has made traditional expedite processing 
available at no additional fee to petitioners who experience an 
unforeseen emergency. Since implementing the Premium Process 
Service, the USCIS has allowed nonprofit organizations to remain 
eligible for the traditional expedite. However, the standards 
for granting expedited processing requests are unclear. The 
traditional expedite is not helpful unless there are clear, 
uniform policies appropriately followed and administered by 
USCIS. 

I am grateful for the opportunity to comment on this proposed 
fee increase. We oppose the proposed fee increase and urge the 
USCIS to demonstrably improve processing of regular petitions 
before burdening petitioners with any increase in processing 
fees. 

Thank you for your consideration. 

Sincerely, 
Charlotte Schroeder 
President 
Colbert Artists Management 
111 W 57th St 
Suite 1416 
New York, NY 10019 

 cc: 
Senator Charles Schumer 
Representative Carolyn Maloney 
Senator Hillary Clinton