From: Hadley Stack [mailto:hadleystack@thermsavers.com]  
Sent: Saturday, March 31, 2007 2:08 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject:  

To Whom It May Concern: 

Please do not raise the adoption fees.  Per below.   

Thank You, 

Hadley Stack  

Dear Families,  

We wanted to make you aware that the USCIS is currently set to increse their fees. On February 
1, 2007, USCIS published a Notice of Proposed Rule Making in the Federal Register that would 
raise filing fees, including those associated with international adoption. The proposed rule is 
subject to a 60-day comment period that ends on April 2, 2007. At the end of the comment 
period, USCIS will review and consider the comments it has received on its proposed rule. USCIS 
will then send its final proposal to the Office of Management and Budget for review. The OMB 
will make a final decision on the fee increase and issue the final rule. This would affect the overall 
total cost of your adoption by several hundred dollars. But you have an oppoturnity to voice 
your  concern over this to them by April 2nd! This fee increase could be in effect as early as June 
2007. For more information on the fee increase visit: 
http://www.uscis.gov/files/nativedocuments/ProposedRule.pdf 
The fee increases associated with international adoption are as follows: 

*N-600 fee will go from $255 to $420  
*I-600A Petition to Classify Orphan as an Immediate Relative fee will go from $545 to $670  
*N-565 Application for Replacement of Certificate of Citizenship (used for name changes) will go 
from $220 to$380 
*Biometric Services (fingerprints) will go from $70 per person to $80 per person 

It is crucial that you make your voice heard in order to keep the cost of international adoption 
from increasing unnecessarily. Comments must be received by April 2, 2007, and must reference 
the agency name (U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services), as well as the docket number 
(USCIS-2006- 0044). Comments may be submitted at  
http://www.regulations.gov/fdmspublic/component/main, the Federal eRulemaking Portal, or via mail 
or courier, in hardcopy, disk, or CD-ROM form to:  

Director, Management Division 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services  
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, 3rd Floor 
Washington D.C. 20529 
Please make your voice heard on this subject! 

God Bless,  

Lauren Barnett 
Asia Family Coordinator 

 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
Hadley Stack 
VP Business Development 
Thermsavers, Inc. 
www.thermsavers.com 
(615) 425-3053 Office 
(615) 419-6926 Cell 
hadleystack@thermsavers.com 

NOTE: This e-mail may contain PRIVILEGED and CONFIDENTIAL information and is intended only for the 
use of the specific individual(s) to which it is addressed. If you are not an intended recipient of this e-mail, you 
are hereby notified that any unauthorized use, dissemination or copying of this e-mail or the information 
contained in it or attached to it is strictly prohibited. If you have received this e-mail in error, please delete it 
and immediately notify the person named above by reply e-mail. Thank you.