From: Lelia Crawford [mailto:lcrawfo@emory.edu]  
Sent: Thursday, March 29, 2007 10:37 AM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: DHS Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044 

DHS Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044 

I am writing to you on behalf of Emory University to comment on the February 1, 2007, proposed 
rule “Adjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit Application and Petition Fee 
Schedule.”  My comments fall primarily in two areas.  First, the proposed fee increases are so 
exorbitant they will act as a disincentive for international students and scholars to study and work 
in the United States.  Second, USCIS fee increases have historically not enhanced services or 
decreased processing times as promised.   

International students and scholars in the United States make a significant contribution to campus 
learning, community diversity, and the economy.  Those who return home to become leaders in 
their countries represent a reservoir of goodwill for the United States and become our partners in 
international business, global health, democratization, and foreign policy.  The President, the 
Secretary of State, and indeed the Secretary of Homeland Security have expressed clearly and 
often the high value that the United States places on attracting international students and 
scholars to this country.   

Nonetheless, international student enrollments in U.S. colleges and universities have been 
declining since 2002.  Educational associations attribute the decline to the almost immediate 
changes in visa requirements following 9/11 and even the requirements that didn’t change were 
applied more stringently.  However, even before 9/11, the U.S. was losing market share in the 
competition for international students to other mostly English-speaking countries (United 
Kingdom, Canada, and Australia).  More recently, nations like China and India, major sending 
countries that are now seeking to provide more and better higher education options for their own 
students, have become competitors.  We should encourage the best students from abroad to 
enroll in U.S. colleges and universities.  The proposed fee increases do just the opposite: they 
create a barrier to F-1 students wishing to apply for optional practical training, a key part of their 
educational experience, and they require students and scholars to subsidize services which will 
not directly benefit them. 

Education organizations have urged the United States government to develop a national strategy 
for restoring its status as a magnet for international students and scholars as a means of 
enhancing U.S. leadership, competitiveness, and security.  They called for coordinating U.S. 
government efforts so that policies by one U.S. government agency that enhances U.S. 
competitiveness are not negated by another government agency.  Regrettably, the proposed fee 
increases continue the trend of one agency negating the positive efforts of another. 

USCIS must reconsider the role of appropriated funds to meet the administrative needs of the 
agency.  I am very concerned about the negative impact that the substantial fee increases that 
are being proposed will have on efforts to recruit international students and scholars.  The 
following areas are of particular concern because I think that the impact will be the most negative 
for Emory University. 

1)      The Form I-765 proposed fee of $320 is prohibitive.  The fee will cause fewer students to 
apply for OPT.  Students will be less likely to apply for "speculative" OPT and will only 
apply, if they have been offered a job.  Students will be less likely to apply for "pre-
completion" OPT as they will see the accumulation of these fees during their program to 
be beyond their means.  OPT was designed as a program to enhance students 
educational experience; however, such a large fee increase will have a negative impact.   

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2)      The inclusion of the application fees for Form I-765 and Form I-131 with the Form I-485 

is unfair to those applicants who do not need to apply for work authorization or a travel 
document.  These should remain as separate fees so that only the applicants who need 
the benefits pay for them. 

3)      Nonimmigrants should not be required to pay the application fee for refugee and asylum 
status.  The U.S. government grants refugee status and political asylum, therefore, the 
fees for these statuses should come from an allocation from the government. 

4)      Fees for applications and petitions should be charged at the rate necessary to cover 

processing cost.  Nonimmigrants should not have to pay the cost of enhancing security, 
maintaining the integrity of the immigration system, and modernizing business 
infrastructure.  These fees should come from budget allocations as with other 
government agencies 

The past history of USCIS and it predecessor, INS, also causes concern regarding promises 
made but never realized.  In past years, fee increases have been implemented with the promise 
of more efficient service and improved processing times.  In reality, the fee increases did not 
bring about a sustained improvement of services or processing times.  Much has been written in 
this proposed rule justifying why the increase in fees is required, and why the amount of increase 
is justified in sustaining improved services and processing times.  If this is so, then USCIS must 
hold itself accountable, providing its customer base with real information on just how services and 
processing times have improved with the new increased fees.  To do this, USCIS should 
benchmark at least twice a year the actual processing times of petitions and publish these 
findings on their website so that the public can see how USCIS is doing in reaching its goals in 
timely processing of petitions.  

With such significant increases in fees, not only should USCIS's customers have ready access to 
information on the progress of reaching targeted goals in processing of petitions, but also ready 
access to USCIS Service Centers in resolving problems/errors with petitions.  Currently USCIS 
does far too little in reaching out to and communicating with its customer base and its customer 
base has far too little access to the actual processing centers in resolving problems/errors.  The 
National Customer Service line does not provide timely or accurate customer service and is a 
failed customer service system which needs to be eliminated and substituted with a Service 
Center-based customer service system.  Finally, by the end of 2009, USCIS should process ALL 
petitions within stated processing time goals or refund the fee, as they do with premium 
processing.  By adding this into the rule, USCIS will hold itself accountable, using these increased 
fees for its intended purpose - sustained improvements in processing times and customer service 
through improved infrastructure and enhanced business practices. 

In summary, the amount of the proposed fee increases will act as a disincentive for international 
students and scholars to study and work in the United States.  However, if implemented, the final 
rule should include steps that USCIS will take to hold itself accountable for sustained 
improvements in processing times and customer service. 

Thank you for the opportunity to comment. 

Lelia Crawford 
Assistant Dean of Campus Life 
Director of International Student and Scholar Programs 
Emory University 
P.O. Drawer V V 
Atlanta, Georgia  30322  USA 

404.727.3300 
404.727.0830 / Fax 
lcrawfo@emory.edu 

 
 
 
 
 
  
http://www.emory.edu/ISSP