APR-82-2887  13:23 

F r o m : I t ' s   Y o u r   B u s i n e s s  

T o : 1 8 6 6 4 6 6 5 3 7 8  

P a s e :  1'2 

----/-------. 

-- 

April 2,2007 
PROPOSED REG - 'EB 

DHS DOCKEI1'#USCJS-20060044  COMMENT ON IJSCIS 

INCREASES 

-+ 

Sheldon Zelig, Bsq. 
175 Maple Street 
Englewnod, NJ  0763 1 

J - .. 

Atm: USClS Leaders o n  Proposed Fee Project 

I write this as recommendation on one area in which USClS has been unable to fulfill its duty 
involving Consular Return. 

I am an AILA member who has discussed this Consular Return area with Michael Aytes, who I 
find to be the most intelligent and pragmatically gifted omcial in USCIS, as one who "gets it". 

I advised Mr. Aytes that I have approximately 10 cases remaining, and am at the point of suing 
USClS In mandamus to get resolution for my cllents, whlch 15 a srmple emalllng of the letter each 
USC Petitioner awaits giving Notice of Intention to Revoke the 1130 pet~tion filed, resulting in a 
Consular interview where there  was an alleged "finding", that the marriage was not real and 
based only on immigration purposes. 

The Consular Returns on the cases can await this letter for 2-5 years during which time the 
marriage dies, or in the case of  a fraud case, the perpetrators get away with the fraud on the US. 

What I suggest is that there be a proposed fee that will cover the process for USCIS, on a 
premium basis to allow expeditious handling of the matter for the Petitioner. Required is the 
sending of the letter to the Petitioner, and than receiving of the evidence in support for re- 
affirmance of the petition and than adjudication by USCIS Service Center, and if re-affirmed, 
sending back to the Post for scheduling of interview. 

Another suggestion in this process would be for the National Visa Center, which initially receives 
the consular return from the Post, to be responsible for reviewing the Consular Return for 
sufficiency under the law, insuring that the return is not based on conjecture or beliefs without 
tangible evidence of fraud.  Too often the Offlcer gets a feellng wlth no objective proof, and 
returns the case for USClS to take care of the matter, abdicating its role in the process. As well 
DoS receives $380 + $70 for the process of NVC to Post and interview, while USClS initially 
received 1130 filing fee, small amount, years ago, and on the Return receives no fee for a fact and 
document intensive process, no doubt costing over $1,000, due to the complex factors playlng 
out and the severe effect if the petition is revoked ending the relationship the husband and wife 
will never have.  The Service Center Omcer will have much to review and much to consider of 
what the Consular Officer reported.  NVC has a Fraud Unit component which could easily take on 
the responsibility of examining each return, from a DoS objective view, to make sure the Fraud 
Prevention Unit fulfilled its duties, as well as the Consular Officers.  If the refusal and return was 
wrong, or insufficient, the case should be returned to Post for another interview, and if grossly 
inadequate, to be returned for issuance of Immigrant Visa.  If the NVC signs off that the refusal 
was good, than and only than should USClS be involved and there should be a fee proposed to 
cover the cost of the complex intensive Consular Process.  Clients each would pay $1,000 if the 
case was fairly conducted in short time frame.  The mandamus that wlll have to be inltiated soon, 

APR-82-2887  1 3 : 2 4  

F r o m : I t ' s   Y o u r   B u s i n e s s  

T o : 1 8 6 6 4 6 6 5 3 7 8  

if not handled, will be more than fee to carry out USClS duty to resolve the petition, under the 
INA. 

There are other similar processes where USClS does not get any fees to cover the duty, another 
coming to mind, is USC Petitioner incarcerated, with DAO to be sent to prison facility or conduct 
teleconference interview, which costs USClS significant money to provide this type of service, 
and should be able to be collected by Petitioner in need of this off the chart service, with cost at 
least $1,000 if not more. 

Last, would be my suggestion that fees generated must, In part be paid to USClS employees, of 
significance, who get it, at the national level, like Mr. Aytes, or District Directors like John 
Thompson in Newark, to insure they remain in USClS and receive salary and compensation 
commensurate with what they do for tens of thousands impacted by their critical role leading 
USClS nationally and at District Level, and than below to Unit level. 

Thank you for your consideration of the above. 

Sheldon Zelig 
Private Attorney 
175 M a ~ l e  Street