March  15, 2007

Director, Regulatory Management  Division,
U.S. Citizenship  and Immigration Services,
Department of Homeland  Security, 111
Massachusetts Avenue, NW., 3rd Floor,
Washington, DC 20529.

RE: DHS Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044

To Whom It May  Concern:

This letter is in response to the DHS Docket No. USCIS-2206-0044, regarding the
proposed USCIS fee increases. As a volunteer  with a non-profit legal aid clinic for
immigrants, refugees, and asylees I must protest the current proposal of the USCIS'  fee
increases. While it is reasonable for INS to increase fees in order to provide better
services and in tandem with the natural rise of general operating costs,  it is my belief that
the proposed increases are draconian measures. The proposed exorbitant  fee increases
would deter immigrants from  applying for legal status, particularly those applying  for
residency, and citizenship. It is my fear that if the fee increases stayed at the proposed
levels, the result would only worsen our current immigration situation.

Fee increases are a natural process for any organization as costs rise and services change,
but there must be a reasonable increase in fees. Numerous congressmen and
congresswomen have spoken out against the current fee increases as proposed for these
reasons. There are only so many roads available for immigrants to attain legal status, and
those channels must remain open. The proposed increases would be an unjust penalty to
poor immigrants and immigrant families.  The immigrants that work hard, work towards
legal immigration status, and are upstanding members of our communities should be
rewarded. We are the country of the American Dream, we are a country of immigrants.
Blocking people from pathways to legal immigration status only puts our country in
jeopardy as it increases the already large number of undocumented immigrants in the
United States, that are resigned to stay in the shadows of our society. It would be  unjust
to block even more hard working, immigrants of good moral character from  achieving the
American  Dream. It will provide no help to our country, nor our national security,  nor the
well-being of so many hardworking immigrants in our communities.

While I condone a reasonable increase in immigration fees,  I deplore the fee increase as
currently proposed, for legal pathways to residency and citizenship must remain open.

Sincerely,

,  T,

Refugee  Rights Advocate, East Bay Sanctuary Covenant