From: Rocio Manriquez [mailto:manriquez@goldenapple.org]  
Sent: Monday, April 02, 2007 12:34 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: Citizenship fees 

April 2, 2007 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Ave., NW, 3rd floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

RE:   DHS Docket # USCIS-2006-0044 
Proposed rule – Adjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit 
Application and Petition Fee Schedule 

To Whom it May Concern: 

I write to strongly oppose the increase of immigration and naturalization fees that the 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) proposed on February 1, 2007.  
Every day immigrants and refugees already struggle to pay immigration fees.  The steep 
increases proposed by USCIS would make it much more difficult to gain permanent 
resident status, reunite with family members, and become a U.S. citizen.  USCIS should 
be helping immigrants become citizens, not making it harder. 

I have been in the U.S. since I was two years old.  I am now 34 and I love my country but 
when injustice tries to prevail it is something that I am very ashamed of.  The U.S. is not 
liked by so many countries because of the injustices it does to its own people and trying 
to raise the fees is right up there!  Raising fees to such a high amount just shows that you 
want to eliminate all those that can not afford it.  People from low incomes shouldnt have 
to sacrafice food, shelter, medications in order to apply for citizenship.  The fee is already 
high and to raise it even higher is just ridiculous.  Talk about not wanting to include those 
that can not afford it.  Then we wonder why so many countries hate the U.S.   

USCIS claims that the fee increase is necessary to improve service, and USCIS definitely 
needs to improve service.  While I applaud USCIS’s efforts to improve service, I do not 
think that the entire cost should rest on immigrants who are already paying taxes, 
working hard, and struggling to pay high fees while receiving poor service.   

Immigration and citizenship are public goods that benefit our entire country and that we 
as a nation should help pay for.  Immigrants work hard, pay taxes, and help revitalize our 
communities.  In becoming citizens, immigrants demonstrate their strong commitment to 
their new home country by learning English, gaining knowledge about American history 
and government, and swearing allegiance to the United States.  We should be 
encouraging immigrants to become part of our community by gaining legal status and 
becoming citizens, not setting up barriers that block their path and keep them out.   

 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
For all these reasons, I strongly oppose the proposed fee increases and urge USCIS to 
reconsider this proposal, and to seek other sources of funding for its operations, rather 
than add more burdens on immigrants.  Thank you for your consideration. 

Sincerely, 

Rocio Manriquez