From: Sapelo42@aol.com [mailto:Sapelo42@aol.com]  
Sent: Saturday, March 31, 2007 4:05 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: [Docket No: USCIS-2006-0044];[FR Doc: E7-01631];[Page 4887-4915]; Immigration: B 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Avenue, NW., 3rd Floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

Re:      Proposed Adjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit 

Application and Petition Fee Schedule, DHS Docket Number USCIS


2006 0044 

To Whom It May Concern: 

This letter is in opposition to the proposed fee increases for the I-600/600A orphan 
petitions required of adoptive families.    

In 1989, the cost of an I600/I600A petition was $75.  Today the exact same form costs a 
prospective adoptive parent $545.  Biometric fingerprinting, which began in 1998, has risen in 
cost from $25 to $70 per applicant.  For a two-parent family adopting a single child, the USCIS 
process costs an upward of $685.   Because of the instability concurrent with international 
adoption, many families find that their USCIS approval expires prior to their invitation to travel to 
their prospective child s birth country.  As a result, many families (especially those adopting from 
China and Guatemala) find themselves repeating the entire immigration application two or three 
times. 
simply do not have.  

 This can increase the cost of an adoption by thousands of dollars 

 money many of us 





 Processing throughout the regional offices is erratic 

The department admits that it has a dismal track record in processing applications and with its 
customer service. 
applications take months to process, while individuals in other districts received approval of the 
exact same form within ten days.  The refusal of officials to give adoptive parents priority results 
in children languishing in orphanages or foster care overseas for months and months at a time.  
Most egregious is that the processing time for immigrant workers (I-140) and employment 
authorization (I-765) are less (average of 3.31 and 1.97 months, respectively) than that to bring 
home an orphaned child (3.39 months).   There is no explanation for 
why USCIS finds it possible to process the projected 859,543 I-765 and 129,743 I-140 applicants 
faster than the 29,260 I-600/600A applicants.   

 some I-600A 



  Why are children seeking to immigrate to the U.S. given greater scrutiny than adult foreign 
workers? 





Adoptive parents attempting to learn the status of their petition are met with deaf ears and 

directed to a  status  website which is not updated. 
 As a result of USCIS  refusal to prioritize 
orphan petitions, thousands of children suffer needlessly.  There has been no move by USCIS to 
assist prospective adoptive parents whose documents  expire  while they wait for their
 child s 
home country to grant them approval to travel.  These parents are forced to reapply with USCIS, 
repaying the same exorbitant fees two and sometimes three additional times, each time 
subjecting themselves to the same long and uncertain wait for immigration approval.  If USCIS 
would simply extend the  expiration  deadline for the I-171H from  
eighteen months to three years, it would significantly reduce its workload without  
having to increase its fees. 











 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 It claims that this fee increase 

In this request for an increase in fees, USCIS is not asking for what it needs, it is asking for what 
is designed to provide for an adequate and sustainable 
it wants. 
level of investment in staff, in infrastructure, and processes designed to improve the USCIS  
  The Bureau justifies these increases by 
abilit

asserting that 
time standards and fund further improvements to USCIS business operations to continue to 
reduce processing times while ensuring the appropriate level of security.

this fee rule would provide the necessary resources to maintain these processing 


y to administer the nation s immigration laws.









There are very few infants infiltrating Al-Qaeda.  The idea that adoptive parents are a threat to 
national security is laughable.  While we agree with the aims of the Department of Homeland 
Security, the additional levels of scrutiny on orphaned children and their prospective parents is 
absurd.   

While the aims of the department are laudable (reducing identity fraud, improving service, 
changing benefit applications from paper to electronic means in order to streamline the process) 
forcing adoptive parents to bear the burden of these goals is unconscionable.  Worse still, many 
of USCIS  stated aims do not directly benefit those seeking to immigrate.    



Many adoptive families have been through years of infertility and loss, and are mortgaging our 
homes and cleaning out our life savings to bring home a child.  Increasing the burden on us is not 
simply unfair, it is detrimental to the lives of waiting children.  We urge rejection of the current 
proposal and a new requirement that USCIS reduce the fee burden on adoptive  
families, give first priority to I-600/600A applications, consolidate the paperwork required for 

orphan petitions, and extend the  expiration  of the I-171H from eighteen months to three years. 



Sincerely, 
Necia Silvers 
Adoptive mother of Andrew, Anya, Nastia, Sergey, and Anya (from Russia) 

See what's free at AOL.com.