From: mail.relay@mailmanager.net [mailto:mail.relay@mailmanager.net] On Behalf Of 
Nathaniel Roberts 
Sent: Monday, March 05, 2007 3:16 PM 
To: USCIS Comments 
Subject: DHS Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044 - USCIS Fee Increase Comment 

Nathaniel Roberts 
1250 Siskiyou Blvd. 
Ashland, OR 97520-5001 

March 5, 2007 

USCIS Comments 

Dear USCIS Comments: 

I am writing to you as an international educator in opposition to the 
February 1, 2007, proposed rule "Adjustment of the Immigration and 
Naturalization Benefit Application and Petition Fee Schedule."  The 
proposed fee increases are so exorbitant they will act as a disincentive 
for international students and scholars to study and work in the United 
States.  USCIS must reconsider the role of appropriated funds to meet the 
administrative needs of the agency.  I ask that fees be reduced to the 
actual cost of processing the application or petition.  

International students and scholars, and campus officials that employ 
them, file tens of thousands of petitions and applications with USCIS 
annually, including: 

   •The near-doubling of the I-765 fee for international students in F 
status to apply for work authorization for Optional Practical Training, 
from $180 to $340. 

   •The increases in the fees required in connection with change of status 
from F to H-1B, including the increase from $200 to $300 (a 50 percent 
increase) in the I-539 application to change nonimmigrant status, and the 
increase from $190 to $320 (a 68 percent increase) in the I-129 petition 
for nonimmigrant worker.  These fees are on top of the required data 
collection and fraud prevention fee, which is not part of the fee schedule. 

   •The huge increases in the fees required to adjust status from H-1B to 
legal permanent resident (green-card status), including:  the 
near-tripling of the I-485 application fee for permanent residence, from 
$325 to $905; and the increase from $195 to $475 (143 percent) in the 
I-140 immigrant petition for alien worker.  (The proposed increase in the 
I-485 fee is partly offset by the fact that it is accompanied by the 
elimination of additional filing fees for work authorization and for 
permission to re-enter after traveling abroad.  However, the inclusion of 
those fees in the proposed new I-485 fee means that they would have to be 
paid even by those who do not expect to require the benefit.) 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At Southern Oregon University, where I work, we have many students who 
apply for change of status and post-graduation employment (such as OPT) in 
particular.  Often times, a change of status application is the difference 
between a student being able to continue his/her studies in the United 
States or return home.  I fear that by increasing the fee for this so 
drastically, it will make many students rethink continuing their studies 
here - thus, preventing an exchange of culture and opportunity.  

Additionally, as I mentioned above, many of our students also apply for 
and receive permission to work off campus following their studies.  This 
allows many students to receive invaluable experience in their field of 
study.  It also allows their employers to gain from a diverse perspective. 
 Again, I fear that if the fee for these types of opportunities increases 
so drastically, it will hinder students from participating in these truly 
rewarding experiences. 

On a more Oregon-based note, I should note that recruiting for 
international students has become a difficult task to pursue because of a 
lack of budget to use at SOU.  That, mixed with ever-increasing tuition 
and fees, has led to SOU seeing our lowest number of international 
students enrolled.  We currently have 77 international students enrolled 
for winter term.  Our total student body population is close to 5,000, 
though.  If USCIS fees increase along with our current issues at hand, I 
fear that international students and scholars at SOU may dwindle even 
futher.  

Many colleges and universities pay the USCIS fees for the green card 
process for the person being hired.  It is less common for the fees for 
the family members, such as spouse and children, to be paid for by the 
colleges or universities.  The increases in fees will have a severe impact 
on families.  

Apart from the direct impact of the excessive fees, they are contrary to 
clearly expressed U.S. policies.  The President, the Secretary of State, 
and indeed the Secretary of Homeland Security have expressed clearly and 
often the high value that the United States places on attracting 
international students and scholars to this country.  The United States 
reaps immeasurable benefits—for our foreign policy, our students' 
education, our economy, our competitiveness, and our public diplomacy—from 
attracting the best and brightest minds and the next generation of world 
leaders to America's educational institutions. 

Regrettably, the increased fees will reinforce the inefficiencies and 
dysfunctionalities USCIS inherited from INS when the Department of 
Homeland Security was created.  The solution to correcting the systemic 
problems that plague the agency is not to keep raising fees in a futile 
attempt to finance a twenty-first century agency.  Unfortunately, to meet 
its statutory requirements, USCIS is turning to its only steady source of 
funding, its filers and petitioners, to finance the required modernization 
of its systems.  While that is understandable, it is not acceptable as a 
matter of public policy, because it prices statutory benefits out of the 
reach of those who need them.  

The fact that USCIS operates on a fee-funded basis creates a built-in 
incentive to subsidize unnecessary work.  This creates an incentive to 
requiring USCIS approval for things; that way, you can charge a fee for 

 
 
 
 
 
 
processing the request, which provides necessary income to finance your 
broader operations.  The I-765 fee for Optional Practical Training is a 
classic example.  It used to be possible for school officials designated 
by the INS to approve OPT in accordance with agency regulations.  The 
benefits of reinstituting and expanding this process speak for themselves: 
 no application, no processing, no fee, one less task to be performed by 
the agency, more time to devote to what the agency really needs to do.  
There is no obvious public policy reason for USCIS to require agency 
approval for OPT today.  With the Student and Exchange Visitor Information 
System (SEVIS) now fully in place, it would be easy to devolve this 
responsibility back onto the schools.  Yet the cost of processing this 
unnecessary application process continues to drive up the fee.  

While I understand that USCIS is permitted by law to recover the full cost 
of its services through fees, and indeed has no other option so long as 
Congress is unwilling to appropriate funds for the operation of the 
agency, I ask that the fees be reduced to the actual cost of processing 
the application or petition.  Meanwhile, I ask Congress to step up to its 
responsibility for fixing the untenable situation that drives these fee 
increases. 

Thank you for the opportunity to comment. 

Sincerely, 

Nathaniel J. Roberts, International Student Program Advisor 
541.552.6660 

This message has been verified by CapwizXC as authentic and sent by this 
individual.  Authentication ID: [WBB76Qt0] 

Changed message text: 22.8%