From: Wayne Dapser [mailto:wdapser@earthlink.net]  
Sent: Thursday, February 01, 2007 11:51 AM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: DHS Docket No. USCIS- 2006-0044 Immigration Fee Increases 

I am writing to object to the  significant increase in fees proposed  
for Immigration services. 

One area that  is particularly noticeable in my practice is the   
increase in fees for Family based immigration cases. 

The basic package of an I-485, I-130, I-765 costs $765 and if an  
Advance parole is needed the cost is $935. 
The increase would raise the fees to $1,680 and $1,985 respectively. 

The argument has been made in the supporting documents that the  
increase would not be as large as it appears because there would not  
be a fee for subsequent EAD (I-7675 ) or Advance Parole (I-131) which  
a percentage of applicants must obtain due to the delays in processing. 

In the Miami District where I practice the average time for  
processing is 6-8 months due to the  tremendous  effort of the staff  
in the  past two years. 

Therefore there is no additional  EADs nor Advance Paroles necessary  
on the vast majority of cases. I estimate that only about 5 percent  
of my cases require follow-up  documents. The increase is not only  
about $105 mentioned as an increase in the supporting documents for  
the I-485 but the $915 or $1050 respective increase for the Family  
packet. 

This is an onerous burden that will have an effect on decreasing the  
ability of  applicants from applying . 

In addition,  it will mean that  applicants will have to decide  
between having proper and trained legal assistance or resorting to  
low-cost 'notarios'. This will result in more problems with  
documentation, increased rejections and greater difficulty for the  
Immigration Service Staff in the adjudication process. 

The cost for applicants cannot be measured only in cost of the  
fees,but also in the costs for the process, which includes the cost  
of the medical exams, obtaining documentation such as birth,  
marriage, divorce, police and court records and legal fees  of  
counsel and staff to properly prepare and assist  the applicants. 

A rough estimate  estimate of  the costs show that fees for  
Immigration have been about 20-25 percent of the cost of the service  
for obtaining an application. With the increase the cost for  
Immigration will be about 40 percent. For working families these  
increases are  serious and will degrade the ability to have adequate  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
legal assistance, and reduce the ability to have efficient   
processing, as well as deter qualified applicants from applying,  
thereby increasing the  undocumented population. 

Another area of concern is the increase for the Motions to Re-open,  
I-290 from $385 to $585.  A high percentage of the Motions to Re- 
open  in the Family cases are based on Service error,  for denials  
where the  applicant failed to attend an Interview that was not  
notified or because documents that had been sent in were lost and not  
received by the  Hearing Officer.  In these cases, again  there is  
the cost for legal services to properly prepare and file the  Motion.  
These additional fees, especially in  valid appeal cases, are already  
financially and personally upsetting and will make it more difficult  
to obtain benefits that they are entitled. 

Finally, there is the issue of  the purpose of the increase. The  
premise that  the Immigration Service fees should be sustained by  
user fees is a concept that  should be addressed by changing the   
requirement for  the fees. 

The  benefits of immigration are economically significant  to this  
country. The ability to  apply for and obtain benefits should be an  
investment by the people of this country and through its leaders and  
Representatives. The fees should not be a burden to be borne by its  
newest participants but a shared  investment in the  future, in a sum  
for the applicants that  involves them but does not overburden or  
deter them.  The cost of the Service  and its administration  is  
repaid  many times over in future taxes and participation in the  
economic life and political life of this country.  Those who are  
currently undocumented repay the country in taxes in short order.  
Those who are adjusting status have a lifelong stake in the country  
that is paid for  in taxes, investment and service . 

The thrust of the Service should be to approach Congress to amend the  
legal directives to fund the system properly and not solely on the  
applicants through user fees. 
I request that the fee increase be rescinded and  Congress be  
requested to fund the system  to a greater percentage. 

Wyane Dapser, Esq 
Dapser & Associates 
302 Southard St, Suite 204 
Key West FL 33040 
305 293-4671 
wdapser@earthlink.net