-----Original Message----- 
From: mail.relay@mailmanager.net [mailto:mail.relay@mailmanager.net] On 
Behalf Of Anne Butler 
Sent: Thursday, March 01, 2007 2:06 PM 
To: USCIS Comments 
Subject: DHS Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044 - USCIS Fee Increase Comment 

Anne Butler 
1101 Pacific Avenue, Suite 200 
Santa Cruz, CA 95060-7507 

March 1, 2007 

USCIS Comments 

Dear USCIS Comments: 

I am writing to you as an international educator in opposition to the 
February 1, 2007, proposed rule "Adjustment of the Immigration and 
Naturalization Benefit Application and Petition Fee Schedule."  The 
proposed fee increases are so exorbitant they will act as a 
disincentive 

for international students and scholars to study and work in the United 
States.  USCIS must reconsider the role of appropriated funds to meet 
the administrative needs of the agency.  I ask that fees be reduced to 
the actual cost of processing the application or petition.   

The University of California Extension, Santa Cruz welcomes 
approximately 1,000 international students and scholars in English 
language and  
professional certificate programs annually.   The near-doubling of the  
I-765 fee for international students in F status to apply for work 
authorization for Optional Practical Training, from $180 to $340, would 
impose a severe financial burden on these students.   

  Apart from the direct impact of the excessive fees, they are contrary 
to clearly expressed U.S. policies.  The President, the Secretary of 
State, 

and indeed the Secretary of Homeland Security have expressed clearly 
and 

often the high value that the United States places on attracting 
international students and scholars to this country.  The United States 
reaps immeasurable benefits-for our foreign policy, our students'  
education, our economy, our competitiveness, and our public diplomacy-
from attracting the best and brightest minds and the next generation of 
world 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
leaders to America's educational institutions. 

Any increase in USCIS fees will decrease the attractiveness of the U.S. 
as 
a study location for those international students who wish to focus on 
improving their English language skills, and increase the 
attractiveness 

of other countries such as Canada, Australia and England. 

The fact that USCIS operates on a fee-funded basis creates a built-in 
incentive to subsidize unnecessary work.  This creates an incentive to 
requiring USCIS approval for things; that way, you can charge a fee for 
processing the request, which provides necessary income to finance your 
broader operations.  The I-765 fee for Optional Practical Training is a 
classic example.  It used to be possible for school officials 
designated 

by the INS to approve OPT in accordance with agency regulations.  The 
benefits of reinstituting and expanding this process speak for 
themselves:  
 no application, no processing, no fee, one less task to be performed 
by 

the agency, more time to devote to what the agency really needs to do.   
There is no obvious public policy reason for USCIS to require agency 
approval for OPT today.  With the Student and Exchange Visitor 
Information System (SEVIS) now fully in place, it would be easy to 
devolve this responsibility back onto the schools.  Yet the cost of 
processing this unnecessary application process continues to drive up 
the fee.   

While I understand that USCIS is permitted by law to recover the full 
cost of its services through fees, and indeed has no other option so 
long as Congress is unwilling to appropriate funds for the operation of 
the agency, I ask that the fees be reduced to the actual cost of 
processing the application or petition.  Meanwhile, I ask Congress to 
step up to its responsibility for fixing the untenable situation that 
drives these fee increases. 

Thank you for the opportunity to comment. 

Sincerely, 

Anne Butler 
831-427-6629 

This message has been verified by CapwizXC as authentic and sent by 
this 

individual.  Authentication ID: [90nhlmu2] 

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Changed message text: 43.4%