-----Original Message----- 
From: mail.relay@mailmanager.net [mailto:mail.relay@mailmanager.net] On 
Behalf Of Lori Friedman 
Sent: Thursday, March 01, 2007 1:42 PM 
To: USCIS Comments 
Subject: DHS Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044 - USCIS Fee Increase Comment 

Lori Friedman 
3300 S. Federal St. 
Chicago, IL 60616-3732 

March 1, 2007 

USCIS Comments 

Dear USCIS Comments: 

I am writing to you as an international educator in opposition to the 
February 1, 2007, proposed rule "Adjustment of the Immigration and 
Naturalization Benefit Application and Petition Fee Schedule."  The 
proposed fee increases are so exorbitant they will act as a 
disincentive 

for international students and scholars to study and work in the United 
States.  USCIS must reconsider the role of appropriated funds to meet 
the administrative needs of the agency.  I ask that fees be reduced to 
the actual cost of processing the application or petition.   

International students and scholars, and campus officials that employ 
them, file tens of thousands of petitions and applications with USCIS 
annually, including:  

   *The near-doubling of the I-765 fee for international students in F 
status to apply for work authorization for Optional Practical Training, 
from $180 to $340. 

   *The increases in the fees required in connection with change of 
status from F to H-1B, including the increase from $200 to $300 (a 50 
percent 
increase) in the I-539 application to change nonimmigrant status, and 
the increase from $190 to $320 (a 68 percent increase) in the I-129 
petition 

for nonimmigrant worker.  These fees are on top of the required data 
collection and fraud prevention fee, which is not part of the fee 
schedule. 

The increase in fees will pose an extreme monetary hardship on our 
students, scholars and university officials and this will strongly 
impact the quality of faculty and researchers that universities can 
attract as departments may no longer be able to afford to hire them on 
H-1Bs due to 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
budgetary restrictions. 

Apart from the direct impact of the excessive fees, they are contrary 
to 

clearly expressed U.S. policies.  The President, the Secretary of 
State, 

and indeed the Secretary of Homeland Security have expressed clearly 
and 

often the high value that the United States places on attracting 
international students and scholars to this country.  The United States 
reaps immeasurable benefits-for our foreign policy, our students'  
education, our economy, our competitiveness, and our public diplomacy-
from attracting the best and brightest minds and the next generation of 
world 

leaders to America's educational institutions. 

Regrettably, the increased fees will reinforce the inefficiencies and 
dysfunctionalities USCIS inherited from INS when the Department of 
Homeland Security was created.  The solution to correcting the systemic 
problems that plague the agency is not to keep raising fees in a futile 
attempt to finance a twenty-first century agency.  Unfortunately, to 
meet its statutory requirements, USCIS is turning to its only steady 
source of funding, its filers and petitioners, to finance the required 
modernization of its systems.  While that is understandable, it is not 
acceptable as a 

matter of public policy, because it prices statutory benefits out of 
the 

reach of those who need them.   

The fact that USCIS operates on a fee-funded basis creates a built-in 
incentive to subsidize unnecessary work.  This creates an incentive to 
requiring USCIS approval for things; that way, you can charge a fee for 
processing the request, which provides necessary income to finance your 
broader operations.  The I-765 fee for Optional Practical Training is a 
classic example.  It used to be possible for school officials 
designated 

by the INS to approve OPT in accordance with agency regulations.  The 
benefits of reinstituting and expanding this process speak for 
themselves:  
 no application, no processing, no fee, one less task to be performed 
by 

the agency, more time to devote to what the agency really needs to do.   
There is no obvious public policy reason for USCIS to require agency 
approval for OPT today.  With the Student and Exchange Visitor 
Information System (SEVIS) now fully in place, it would be easy to 
devolve this responsibility back onto the schools.  Yet the cost of 
processing this unnecessary application process continues to drive up 
the fee.   

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
While I understand that USCIS is permitted by law to recover the full 
cost of its services through fees, and indeed has no other option so 
long as Congress is unwilling to appropriate funds for the operation of 
the agency, I ask that the fees be reduced to the actual cost of 
processing the application or petition.  Meanwhile, I ask Congress to 
step up to its responsibility for fixing the untenable situation that 
drives these fee increases. 

Thank you for the opportunity to comment. 

Sincerely, 

Lori Friedman 

This message has been verified by CapwizXC as authentic and sent by 
this 

individual.  Authentication ID: [q0891VCL] 

Changed message text: 19.6%