a Educational Fund 

cmpowenng Lat~nos to parhcipatc fully m the Arner~canpolitlcal p*ocex 

FAX COVER SHEET 

eRulemaking Portal 

To: 
From:  Rosalind Gold, NALEO Educational Fund 
Fax: 
866466-5370 
Pages:  10, including cover 
Datc:  April 2, 2007 

Urgent 

For Review 

Please Comment 

Plcasc Rcply 

Re:  DHS Docket No. USCIS 2006-0044 

Attached please find the cornmcnts of the NALEO Educational Fund submitted on thc USCIS 
proposcd rule to adjust the Immigration and Nat~~ralizaiion Benefit Application and Petitio~~ Fee 
Schedule, DHS Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044. 

Thank you for your attention to this matter. 

From the desk of 

Rosalind Gold 
Tcl: (213) 747-7606 , ext. 120 
Fax: (213) 747-7664 
Ernail: rgold@nal~o.org 
Wcbsirc: www.naleo.org 

Educational Fund 

,facilitates full Latino participation  in the American politicalprocess 

I  April 2,2007 

Wnnnda Bmrrltnxr 
Ilnn, T!riwnd R. Rnyhnl (Rct.) 1 

nnnrd "r ~ I ~ C C ~ V  
Nos. Rnfncl Anchin, Olair 

Mr. Andmw saldonadu 

,l3alrru,,.wlr  COW~",II, ,,,I 

Ho!i  lohn BYFIIO~NALEO P m i L n l  
I P  

Mr. lvclirac R narrndn 
. 

hrrrrPmr~d,~nl Pm-T,nm 
. 
O,,IY*,~"(ii*,*ll,*m,h7"h7,,,I. 

Dr. tlcnr). L. Fcrnandcz 

Ll"A  F , , l r  

Plnn Cyntha Mnar.Mnrrirr 
FnmEn"*r*h".lilsW. 

ha 

Hnn. Pctcr Rivsn 

X?") n,,h ."k,Ir  d*"rmb+ 
M i .  O~iillcrmn Rndripi~cz. Jr. 
Hon. Roaclnnry E. Rodriguw 
rvru.Uihl  Cnnm,!. C'r, 

Hon Lucillc Roybrl-Allnrd 

fimrrrqfnncm,,.. CA 

Mr. An Ruiz 

s,o*  For,"  1nruronrr C " , , , ) , O ~  

Flon Mary Rorc Wilcor 
~ n ~ m n n  

nr 
co~nnr ~nnrdorsn,rn~rm~.~. 

Rnmrd nlAdyl80~8 
Hon. A n h ~ l  ACCYC~O VilA 

Onw-n-,  Cnmmn**nlihdP,vrur* 1. 

Arm.  Cnrnl Alvnrndo 

rn.?<knr, , l ~ . ~ H k E , ~ r d , ~ , m I D # , r ~ m I ~  
N.rhm"li..pmnrridr.,~~ 

Ilon. loc Unca 

rkdr, C3>"~rn~,,lrnl 

l,~"""h nlm* 

Imn. Mnrin Cnlin 

1.m rn,r,m  r,u,hvr.h.,d  rni,r. ~ ~ ~ ~ (

11on. ndolfn cnmian 

Bnml(ol#hr.*)lkar Tlir R h m ~  W 

Hon. Pcdm Colbn 

W i . ~ r n ~ . i ~  Shn RlplxwI~I,,? 

1,l"n. Stcvc Gnllardn 

A",-" 

R,"V  RI,,W.*,W,.IIW 

Hon. Pcrc Oallap 

7c,ac  Smk  R r y r r n ~ * ~ , ~ t ! ~ ~  
Clm,,: Mrnm" nmrrlmn ,.*,.?,.nu, 

rrvriu 

Hon. G m i  Uurmnn 

<l*Tmu.rr*l-nndBl.nlN~~dM~~hhh~ 
C,@lrM"n,rhrRi. CA 

Hon. Mary Hcmr.~ 

Crr*",:"  ,,fS,"M,  rvN 

Hon. Rny Mnrtitlcz 

Chnbmn C,mwrmr'r Mmrl(u Lmrae$n Cc~,!fla,l, ro 

A m .   Fclixvniq 

rxx$dcxr xa;urir,lld 
i

~
Hon.  Lllllctn;u Uvlir 

Phmr  Nmllnnalldrl>nvir C o # ~ i # ~ r .  N$BA 

Iron Pcnrl Quinnncr 

Ll,r.l"on*l  M?miur 
*nnrmm.  il",ppd,*hnnln,,"nri.  C" 

Hen. lura Rnmo. 

Connc/lrmn.s.Lnqt. PhIM*,dpldv, P i  

Hon. Ellerot Rivcn~ 
rnnm(,.","r,rr 
nh*  ll.nphin  n"Urn*C0.6,**-**-,,,," NII 

Am. kmnndn TraviNn 

S~hnrllJ,mdMrmlr~r. Eun chh+*,  iN 

Hon. Don Ftrncirm Trviilto I T  
Il+ou?lS*rrrrmY RiSrnw, N.U 

Ilnn, lunn Znp~ta 

r,,>llri*,",mlrArprm,x"",,,,~ 

Director, Regulatoly Management Division 
United  Stares Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Dcparhcnt of Homeland Security 
11 1 Massachusetts Ave., NW 3rd Floor 
Washington, D.C. 20529 

I  RE: DHS Docket N o  USClS 20066044 

Dcar Dircctor of Regulatory Management: 

The National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials 
Educational Fund (NALEO) would like to take this opportunity to express our 
st]-ong opposition to thc Unitcd States Citizenship and Immigration  Services' 
(USCIS) proposal to increase several immigration and naturalization 
application fees, including the fees to initiate the naturalization process.  The 
USCIS has proposed lo adjust the current Examinations Fee schedule by 
amending S CPR part 103, Section 103.7 (b) (1);  notice of thc proposal was 
p~~blish,ed 
DHS Docket No. USCIS 2006-0044 (hereinafter referred to as thc "Federal 
Register notice"). 

in the February 1,2007 Federal Register, Vol. 72, No. 21, 

; ~ , e ~ ~  

The NALEO Educational Fund is the leading national non-profitorganization 
that facilitates Latino participation in the American political process, kom 
citizenship to public service.  The NALEO Educational Fund's  constituency 
includes the more than 6,000 Latino elected and appointcd officials 
nationwide.  For the last two dccades, the NALEO Educational. Fund has 
assisted more than  125,000 legal permanent residents take the important step 
to U.S. citizenship through community-based workshops and other services 
throu,gl~out the countly.  Since 1985, tbe Fund has also operated a toll-Bce 
inEom~ation and resource hotline for callers with questions about. thc 
naturalization process - in the last five years alone, we have assisted about 
75,000 callers through the hotline.  Since 1993, the Fund has conductcd a 
comprehensive national public service media campaign to inform newcomers 
about the opportunities and requirements of U.S. citizenship. 

In addition, in 2005, as part of a "Community Empowennent"  civic 
engagernmt program, we undertook research on tile barriers to naturalization 
confronted by Latino non-citizens in Houston, Los Angeles, and New York, in 
order to determine the best possible outreach strategics to increase 
naturalization rates within these communities.  Based on the researcll (which 
included focus groups wit11 both U.S. citizens and non-citizens), w e  learned 

P . , ~ , , ~  IT,T,~,~ ins~c~~hr3 
~
.

~

~

~

~

~

i

1122 W. Washington Blvd.. 3''  Floor 

Los Anlgeler, CA 9001 5 
(213) 747-7606 
F?x (213) 747-7664 

O 600 ~ennsylvnnta Avcnuc, SE 
Washtnglon, DC 20003 
(202) 546-2536 
Fax (202) 5 4 6 4  121 

1314 Texas Ave., Sultc 1630 

Houston, TX 77002 
(713) 228-6400 
Fax (713) 228-0606 

1 I 0 wall street, 1 6'h ~l~~~ 
New York. NY  10005 
1212) 480-1918 
Fax (212) 480-1697 

12106 

 
Director of Regulatory Management, USCIS 
April 2, 2007 
Pagc 2 

that the current cost of initiating the naturalization process ($400) was one of the major obstacles 
cited, together with the lack of access to reliable ii~fonnation about the naturalization process, 
and concerns about the level of English proficiency nccded to pass the naturalization 
examination. 

, , 

Most recentlv. in Februarv 2007. we launched our va e.7  Izora  iCiudadanial 
  it'.^ time for  citizenshil~~jcam~aign, which has brought together alliances of community and 
fait11 based organizations, unions, public and private agencies, law offices and attorneys, elected 
and appointed:oficials, and priva& businesses in Southern California, Houston, New York and 
Miami.  The purpose of this year-long campaign is to educate eligible legal permanent residents 
about U.S.  citizenship and assist them with the naturalization process.  We are conducting this 
campnign together with Univision, thc nation's  largest Spanish-language television nctwork, and 
La Opinibn, the largcst Spanish lanyagc ncwspapcr. 

Thcse comments arc submitted in response to the USClS  Proposed  Rule regarding "Adjustment 
ofthe Immigratioii and Naturalization Benefit Application and Petition Fee Schedule." 

I. 

Introduction 

The NALEO Educational Fund's  unparalleled experience in U.S. citizenship promotion, 
assistance and research compels us to oppose and raise serious questions about the 
USCIS' fee proposal.  We are particulariy conccrned about the increase in the fee for filing the 
Form N-400 Application f i r  Naturalization, which would raise t l ~ e  fee from $330 to $575. 
Together with the proposed increase in the biometrics fee (from $70 to $80), the USCIS' fee 
hikes would raise thc cost of initiating the naturalization process from $400 to $675, a 
69% increase.  We are deeply conccrned lhal the USCIS has relied on questionable calculations 
to justify  its immigration and naturalization fee hikes.  We also believe that thc proposcd 
increases do not accurately reflect the cost of services being provided to applicants, and that the 
USCIS has takcn into account costs that should not be charged to appli,cants. We also do not 
bclicve that the proposed increases are justified  in  light of the current quality of service provided 
by the agency or its proposed sewice enhancements.  We urge the USCIS to pursue legislative 
changes and alternative sources of funding which will enable it to cover portions of the costs of 
its services before raising application fees.  Finally, we belicvc thc proposed increase in the fees 
for naturalization will place a significant burden on legal permanent rcsidcnts pursuing 
U.S. citizenship, and is contrcq to our national interest in promoting the integration of 
newcomers. 

XI. 

The USCIS H i s  Relied on Questioanblc Calculations to Justify the Proposed Fee 
Increases, and the Increases Do Not Accurately Reflect thc Cost of Services Being 
Provided to Applicants 

The USCfS is authorized to chargc fces for immigration and naturalization applications under the 
Section 286(m) of the Immigration and Nationality Act; in describing the legal authority to set 

Director of Regulatory Management, USCIS 
April 2, 2007 
Pagc 3 

the level of these fees, thc USCIS also refers to Office of Management and Budget (OMB) 
Circular No. A-25, which directs federal agencies to charge the "full cost" of providing services 
when those services are provided to specific recipients.  We are concerned that the USClS has 
relied on questionable estimates and calculatioi~s in  detennining the level of its fee increases. 
We also believe that the increases proposed by the USCIS do not accurately reflect the cost of 
providing services to immigrati,oii and natura1,ization applicants, and ilnposes "surcharges"  upon 
those applicants for services unrelated to the adjudication of their applications. 

"C~muletion Rates" Mav Measure Current Aeency Inefficiencies:  In determining the full cost of 
providing services, the USCIS convened its Workload and Fee Pro,jection Group, which 
conducted a review ofthe activities of costs of adjudication services funded through the 
Examinations Fee account.  In assessing the cost of 'Make Determination" on applications, 
which the USCIS characterizes as tl~e largest processing activity cost, it appears that the 
Workload and Fee Projection Group used a modeling convention that essentially took a 
"snapshot" of lhe USCIS'  practices during September 2005-Ang~1st 2006.  This snapshot 
included "conlpletion rates" which measure the average adjudicative time needed to perform a 
parlicular activity.  Thus, in dctennining the cost of making determinations on applications, the 
USCIS used the actual timc it took the USCIS to perform the various immigration adjudication 
and naturalization activities, with no analysis of whcthcr the agmcy could operate its prograin 
more efficiently and for a reduced cost to the applicant paying a fee. 

The impact of this ~nethodology is of particular conccrn for applications where signi.licant fee 
increases are being justitled  as a result of a "threefold increase in completion rates,"  as is the 
case with the Form N-400 (discu,ssed in Section X of the Federal Register notice).  The USCIS 
attributes most of the increases in completion rates to the additional time devoted to the 
expansion of backgroun,d checks instituted in July 2002.  However, we understand that many of 
thcsc checks are background checks conducted through thc Interagency Border Inspection 
Systcm (IBIS).  The USCIS notes that these checks were instituted nearly 5 years ago - we 
question why the agency has not found a way to improve its eficicncy in making these checks in 
the pas1 five years, so that it can reduce the adjudicative time spent on them. 

Moreover, in determining the amount of any increase, the USCIS should take into account any 
cost-savings it will realize as a result of increased productivity or efficiencies it intends to realize 
in lhe coming fiscal years, such as those which may result from its enhanced staffing model, 
improved staff t.raining, a,nd upgrades to its tecllnolopy infrastwcturc.  In Section W(E)(3) of the 
Federal Register notice, the USCIS describes an alnbitious program of service, security and 
i~~fixstmcture enhancements for which it needs additional funds.  We hope that these 
improvelnents will result in better managcmmt and more efficient use of its resources.  We 
bclievc h a t  the USCIS should demonstrate that is has takcn into account the cost of processing 
immigration and naturalization applications under its enhanced processing systems in 
ascertaining the appropriate application fccs. 

Dircctor of Regulatory Management, USCIS 
April 2, 2007 
Page 4 

Ouestionable Estimates of Avnlicalion Volumes:  In addition, we also question the estimates of 
application volume prcscntcd in Table 7, Section V (B) of the Federal Register notice, which the 
USCIS uses to calculate application unit costs.  Generally, the USCIS projccls a decrcase in the 
volume of most applications; where increases are projected, the most significant are for the 
Form N-400 and the Form 1-485. 

However, bascd on our own cxpericnce with naturalization applicants, and data from thc USCIS, 
we have seen that naturalization applications increase dramatically immediately prior to the 
imposition ofa fec hikc, followcd by a declins in  applications.  USCIS data reveal that the 
number of naturalization applications filed with the agency increased from 602,972 in 
Fiscal Year 2005 to 730,642 in  FY 2006, an increase of 21%.  In Los Angclcs, in January and 
February 2007, we saw very signiicant increases in Form N-400 filings over the previous year. 
In January 2007, 18,024 From N-400s were filcd, comparcd to 7,334 in January 2006.  In 
Febma~y 2007,  15,568 Fonn N-400's  were filed compared to 7,411 in February 2006.  As  noted 
earlier, based on our discussions with naturalization applicants, we know that many consider the 
current $400 application cost to be a serious barrier for naturalization, and based on our past 
experiences, we believe that there will be a siwificant decline in applications xlter thc incrcasc 
takes effect. 

We understand that the USCIS believes that after the imnposition of fee increases, the number of 
applications will  start to increase again or level off.  i-Iowever,  the dollar amount of the proposed 
increase in the fees to initiate the naturalization process ($275) is the largest ever in USCTS 
history, and the $675 fec represents for many newcomer families the cost of a monthly rent or 
mortgagc payrncnt, their highest household cxpcnditurc.  According to data from the 
2000 Cmsus, 43% ofnon-citizen l~ousel~olds pay at least $700 in rent each month.  Thus, if thc 
propose increase is inlplemented, it is very likely that many applicants will delay their 
applications or forcgo filing them entirely.  As is the case with any business that raises prices 
too steeply beyond what its customers can afford, the USCIS may cxpcricncc a dcclinc in fcc 
revenue that will  make it impossible for the agency to cover its estimated costs. 

Concerns About "Indirect  Cost"  Calculations:  We also question the USCTS' calculations with 
respect to the $924 million in "indirect costs"  described in Section, VI of the Federal Register 
notice, which the agency defines as "the  ongoing administrative expenses of a business which 
cannot be attributed to any specific business activity, but are still necessary for the business to 
function."  While identifying the total amount of these costs, it is unclear precisely how the 
USCIS incorporates thein into its direct costs - it appears to make them a tixed percentage of the 
direct costs of each application, but the amount wEt11is percentage or how it is incorporated 
seems vague.  We believe the USCIS should provide explicit information on the amount of this 
pmentagc so that the public can better understand the relationship of indirect and d,irect costs in 
the USCIS'  calculation o f h  increase. 

"4dditipnal  Resourcc Rcquircmcnls" Includc Alypical Processing Costs:  In determining the 
funding needed for the enhancements described in Section IV(E)(3), thc USCIS identified 

Director 01 Regulatory Managcmcnt, USCIS 
April 2.  2007 
Page 5 

$524.3 million in "additional  resource requirements," which involve costs above the basic 
resources the agency claims it needs to meet its mission responsibilities.  This $524.3 million 
represents one-quarter (26%) of the $1.988 billion the agency assigns to FY 200712008 
application processing activities.  However, a significant number of these "resourcc 
requirements" appear to be for expenses which arc unusual and atypical of a normal processing 
year.  These expenses include the establishmmt of a sccond, Eull-service card production facility 
($34.3 million),and upgrad,es to the USCIS' information technology environment ($124.3 million). 
These infrastructure costs essentially represent an "invcstmcnt"  that should not be funded by 
currcnt immigration and naturalization applicants and must not bc included in the fee calculation. 
As discussed further below, the USCIS should seek appropriated funding from Congress to pay 
for these large atypical funding needs, and should remove these costs from the calculation of the 
naturalization fee.  While the list of atypical expenses identified in  thi,s paragraph is not 
exhaustive, those expenses alone total $1 58.6 million.  The USCIS could subtract this amount 
from its fee calculations and pass the savings on to the customer. 

Other FY 200812007 Costs Which Should Not Bc Covcred BY Avnlicant Fees:  In addition to its 
proposed infrastmcture invcstmcnts, tlic USCIS also includcs in the PY 2007f2008 Immigration 
Examinatioll Fee Account (IEFA) costs expenses which do not just benefit applicants, but which 
also benefit evcryone in the nation.  In some cases, these are expenscs for which other 
government agencies receive appropriated funds, or which are si~nply not the type of expenses 
which should be paid for by user fees.  These expenses include increased payments to the FBI for 
fingerprint, name, and security cllecks which benefit national security; and processing of 
Freedom of Tnfonnation Act requests, for which every other government agmcy rcccivcs 
appropriat~d monies.  In addition, thc costs for Internal Secu,rity and Investigative Operations for 
the investigation of misconduct of Federal and contract employees should not be borne by 
ilnilligrant applicants.  As is th,e case with in,frastructure enhancement cxpcnscs, lhc USCIS 
should seek appropriated funding to cover these costs. 

USCZS  Should Seek Statutow Changes to Eliminate "Surcharaes":  As a result of USCIS 
Congressional actions, thc application fees paid by immigrants reflect "surcharges"  for services 
unrelated to the processing of their applications.  For example, Congress requires the USCIS to 
usc the IEFA to run the asylum and refugee programs; accordin,g to the Federal Register notice 
announcing the fee increases, these program costs amount to 8% of the FY 200712008 IEFA 
costs.  In assigning amounts to various fees to cover these costs, Table 1 1  in Section VIII of the 
Federal Register notice indicates that the USCIS has allocated $42 to each application for these 
programs.  The USCIS itself refers to this additional component as a "surcharge" to its 
applicatioil fees. 

An additional surcharge to t l ~ e  asylumlrefugee costs is the surcharge for cases that qualify for 
waivers and exemptions.  The USCIS estimates that the cost associated with its 
waiverslexeinptions is $150 million, or 6% of the FY 200712008 IEFA costs.  Table 11 indicates 
that the USCIS has allocated $30 to each application for these costs. 

Director of Regulatory Management, USCIS 
April 2, 2007 
Page 6 

It is entirely appropriate to provide services to these categories of people at no cost to tbcm. 
Such service is a part of  our foreign policy and enables the united States to be in compliance 
with various international human rights treaties to which the United States is a signatory. 
Howevcr, it is inappropriate for immigrants who are paying for other iinnliption and 
naturalization processing services to pay for tliese unrelatcd scrvices.  Congress should support 
the handling of rcfugec and asylee cases; therefore, we emphasize tl~at under no circumstances 
should an application fee be charged to applicants for rcfugce or asylum status. 

Although the USCTS does not control Congrcss, it is the USCIS'  responsibility to present a 
strong case to our nation's legislators as to why the Examinations Fee Account should only be 
uscd for services for which it charges fees.  Thc USCIS should make its case to Congress and 
allow Congress timc to act upon it before implementin,g its proposed fee hikes. 

Ill.  The USCIS' Proposcd Increases Are Not Justified in Light of thc Current Qualiq of 

Service Provided by the Agcncy or its Proposed Enhancements 

The fees for initiating the naturalization process have bccn soaring since 1991, when newcomers 
paid $90 to apply for U.S. citizenship.  While the USCIS has made iinprovements in the quality 
of its services, it still, nccds to make significant progress.  Thc agency has definitely reduced its 
naturalization backlogs and processing Liines - in the late 1990's, applicants confronted an 
avcrage wait of abouitwo ydars, and ;he  agency now estimates that thc average processing time 
is about seven months.  However. therc are still a substantial number of naturalization abulicants 
who have been waiting security ciearanccs for years, and the agency has been subject to 
litigation over some of these cases. 

- - 

A  A 

Moreover, in USCTS materials describing the fee increase, onc justification offered is that the 
agency will be able to reduce Form N-400 average processing times  om seven to five months. 
To the extent that reduced processing time is one measure of the quality of service applicmts 
receive, the USCIS is essentially proposing a 69% incrcase in costs to achieve a 40% increase in 
service.  We do not believe that processing time reduction justifies  the enormous burden that the 
fee increasc will impose on naturalization applicants. 

IV. 

The USClS  Should  Seek  Congressional  Appropriations  to  More  Effectively  Fund 
Immigration and Application Naturalization Activities 

For most of our country's histo~y, the USCIS did not charge for immigration adjudication and 
naturalization services.  In  1968, tbc INS began charging fees for such services but the fees were 
deposited in the General Treasury Fund until 1989. During that period, Congress appropriated 
funds to the USCIS for immigration adjudication and naturalization services.  It has only been 
for the last 18 years that the fees deposited in the Examinations Fee Account have bees 
essentially thc "sole source of funding" for immigration adjudication and naturalization services. 

Director of Regulatory Management, USCIS 
April 2. 2007 
Page 7 

There is no reason why Congress is prevented from appropriating funds for immigration and 
naturalization services, and there are many reasolls why the USCIS should seek such funding 
fram Congress.  In fact, as the USCIS itself acknowledges in Section fIl(C) of the Federal 
Register notice, for the past several years, Congress did appropriate monies as part of a five-year 
effort to reduce application backlogs, and the agency specifically mentions appropriations in 
FY 2006 ($115 million), and FY 2007 (about $182 million).  Yet for FY 2008, lile agency is 
now asking for only $30 million in appropriated monies, and does not mvision these hnds as a 
significant source of  revenue that will allow it to reduce application fees. 

We commend thc USCIS for its efforts to articulate a comprehensive visioii of the infrastmcture 
and process enhancements it bclicvcs arc ncccssary l:o "Build a 21" Century Immigration 
Service,"  as described in the press materials disscminatcd by the agency.  We agree that many of 
these e~ihancements are long overdue, and that they will involvc somc fundamental changes in 
how the agency operates its business.  But we are bewildered by the agency's  reluctance to 
approach and make its casc to Congrcss to obtain new appropriated funding for an agency 
overhaul.  Congress was willing to appropriate monies when the USCIS faced the extraordinary 
cliallenge of rcducing application backlogs.  The USClS now appears to face a similar challenge 
in making fundamental improvements that require a substantial investment, and it should 
demonstrate the leadership nccessaxy to cnablc Ihc agency to meet these challenges by requesting 
Congressional funding to supplement fee revenue.  Additionally, as noted above, the USCIS 
should seek lenislative changes that would enable awnrooriations to bc uscd to covcr the cost of 
adjudicating refugee and asylee cases, as well as waiver and exemption expenses; such costs 
should not be covered by "surcharges"  to naturalization applicants. 

- 

- 

. L "  

A 

We are particularly concerned about the USCIS'  public characterization of the statutory 
"mandate"  that it clai,ms requires it to recover the full costs of  application services froin fees and 
prcvents it from seeking Congressional appropriations.  Thc USCIS refers to Section 286(m) of 
h e  Immigration and Nationalig Act to support that claim; however, this section specifically 
states that application fees "may be set at a level that will ensure recovery of the full costs of 
providing all such services."  This language does not require the agency to do so. 

The USCIS also makes refwcnce to OMB Circular No. A-25, which establishes federal policies 
for user fees assessed for government services that convey "special benefits" to recipients 
beyond those accruing to the general public.  This Circular does statc a general policy that that 
user charges must be sumcient to recover the full costs of the smiccs, but in Section 6(c)(2)(b), 
it also explicitly allows agency heads to make exceptions to the general policy if any condition 
exists that the agency liead believes justifies an exception.  First, insofar as this circular is an 
administrative policy memorandum,, it does not have the force of law.  Moreover, as discussed in 
more detail bclow, we believe that the USCIS would be well-justified in making an exception to 
the Circular's general policy in light of  the significant burden that the fce increase would impose 
on  legal permanent residcnts who are pursuing U.S. citizenship, and the positive benefits of 
incrcascd naturalization to our nation. 

Director of Regulatory Management, USCIS 
April 2,2007 
Page 8 

V. 

The  Propored  Increase  in  Naturalization  Fees  Will  Place  a  Significant  Burden  on 
Legal Permanent Residents Pursuing U.S. Citizenship, and is Contrary to the Public 
Interest in Newcomer Integration 

The proposed increase will impose a prohibitive financial burden on countless immigrant 
families.  According to 2000 U.S. Census data, about one out of three of our nation's  non-citizen 
households (36%) havc annual incomes of less than $25,000.  According to a  March 2007 report 
released by the Pew Hispanic Center, "Growing Share WE Im~nigrants Choosing to Naturalize," 
24% of legal permanent rcsidents eligible to naturalize - or one out of four - have family 
incomes below the povcr!y  line.  Mexican newcomers eligible to naturalize face even more 
significant financial challenges:  32%, or nearly one out of three, havc family incomes below the 
povcrly line.  Based on our work with Latin,o newcomers, we know that family members often 
want to pursue U.S. citizenship by applying for naturalization at the same tirnc.  With the 
increase proposed by the USCIS, a family of four would confront a bill amounting to $2,700. 

Applicants for U.S. citizenship already incur substantial costs in completing the naturalization 
process - they must pay for such costs as application assistance, legal services, photographs, and 
English and civics educational scrvices.  Currently, we know that inany newcomers simply 
cannot afford to become U.S. citizens; the proposed fee increase will put naturalization beyond 
the reach of far Inore immigrants, including many of thc most vulnerable rncmbers of our 
coinlnunity such as tlie elderly and rhc disabled. 

The USCIS is proposing to raise the fees to initiate the U.S, citizenship process by 69% at a time 
whm greater naturalization is critical to thc future of our nation.  Legal permanent residcnts who 
embrace U.S. citizenship are motivated by a. desire to demonstrate their cornrnitmcnt to this 
country, and whcn they gain the right to become full participants in the political process, our 
democracy becomes stronger and more representative.  Greater naturalization also makes a wider 
group of skilled and talented workers available in our workforce for positions that are barred to 
non-citizens. 

President George W. Bush and thc USCIS recognize that the naturalization of legal pennancnt 
residents is in the best interests of this country  Jn his State of the 'Union address, the President 
etnphasizcd the value of upholding the nation's tradition that welcomes and "assimilates"  ncw 
arrivals.  In June 2006, by Executive Order, the President established that Task Force on New 
Americans, in order to strengthen the efforts of tl1e Department of Homeland Security and 
federal, state, and local agencies to help "legal immigrants.. .fully become Americans."  The 
Executive Order c11,arges the Task Force with making recommendations to the President on 
actions that will enhance cooperation between federal, agencies and among federal, state and 
local authorities responsible for the integration of legal permanent residents.  However, placing 
naturalization beyond the rcach of many of our nation's  newcomcrs is completely contrary to tlie 
spirit of thc Adnlinistration's  civic integration efforts, and will ultimately unde.mine them.  We 
cannot claim that we ai-e tmly committed to encouraging legal permanent residents to embrace 
American civic values when we simultaneously impose an exorbitant and unfair price tag on the 
cost of U.S. citizenship. 

Director of Regulato~y Management, USCIS 
April 2, 2007 
Pagc 9 

VI. 

Conclusion 

As our nation looks to its future, the cconornic, social and civic contributions of immigrants will 
play a kcy role in our growth and prospaity.  TIE  fees that we charge immigration and 
naturalization applicants are an important component of our overall immigration 
policies -policies  which should be fair and which should further our nation's  intercst in a vibrant 
and vital democracy.  However, the USCIS' proposed fee increases are a serious obstacle to 
achieving these goals.  We believe the USCIS has rclied upon flawed or questionable 
calculations in dctcrmining the amount of the incrcases.  The magnitude of the fcc hikes do not 
appear to be justificd in light of the quality of services received by applicants.  Thc agcncy has 
not pursued available alternatives to more effectively fund its activities.  The fee incrcases would 
impose an unfair burden on newcomer families with limited resources who would havc to defer 
or cven forego their dream of U.S. citizenship.  In light of the foregoing concerns, wc believe 
that thc USCIS cannot justify  its increases in immigration and naturalization fees, and we urge 
the agency to withdraw or reconsider its proposal. 

Thank you for considering our Comments.  Plcasc do not hesitate to contact Rosalind Gold, 
Scnior Director of Policy, Research and Advocacy, Los Angeles Officc, at 
213-747-7606, ext. 120 or r~old@,naleo.org if you havc any questions or if wc can be of further 
assistance during the commcnt process. 

Sincerelv. 

Arturo Vargas 
Execntive Dircctdr 

cc: 

Latino Members oECongess 
Thc  Hono~rible Edward  M.  Kennedy,  Chair,  Senate  S~ibcornmittee on  Immigration, 

Rcfugees and Border Sccurity 

The Honorable Zoe Lofgrcn, Chair, House Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, 

Rcfugees, Border Sccurity, and International Law