APR-82-2887 

89:16 

GENERAL  COUNSEL 

Yale University 
Office of the Vice President aid General Counsel 
P.O. Box 209255 
Ncw  Haven, cT  06520-8255 
Tel. (203) 432-4949  Fax (203) 432-7960 

Calnous Address: 
Whitney Grove Square 
2 Whitney Avenue, 6"'  Floor 
New Haven, CT 065 10 

FAX TRANSMISSION 

Date:  April 2, 2007 

To: 

Federal ~Rulelnaking Portd 

From:  Dorothy K. Robinson 

Subject: DHS Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044 

Number of Pages (inchdingfax cove) 4 

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE  This facsimile conrains legally PRIVILEGED AND CONFIDENTIAL 
infornlation intended only for the usc of the addressce(s) named above.  If you are not the intended 
recipient, you are hereby notificd that any dissemination, distribution or copying of this facsimile is strictly 
prohibited.  If you have received this facsimile in crror, please immcdiatcly notify us by tclepllotke at (203) 
432-4949 and return the original facsimile to us at the above address via U.S. Postal Service.  Thank you. 

APR-82-2887 

89:16 

GENERAL  COUNSEL 

Yale University 

DOROTlIY K. KOPINSON 
VICE President and  Gencrul Counsel 
PO. Rllr 208255 
NCW Haven, Conn~cticuto6~zo-8255 

April 2,2007 

D~rcclor 
Regulatory Management Divisio~i 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Holnelaiid Sccurity 
Wash~ngton, D.C. 20.529 

Kc:  DHS Docltet No. USCXS-2006-0044 

Drar Director 

On  behalf of Yalc University, I  am pleased to havc thc opporlunity to sub~nit the 

following comments on the Dcpartmsnt of Homeland Security's proposed  rule on 
"Adjustment  of the immigration and Natul-alization Benefit Applicatio~i and Petitioil Fee 
Schedule". 

Yale applauds the efforts by  the Department of Ilonieland Scc~lrity and the U.S. 

Citizcnsl?ip and Immigration Scrviccs (I.ISC1S) to inlprove both thc security and 
efficiency in its adjudication of immigration benefits .  Yale's  ability to compete globally 
fol- the best students and scholars depends on a system of immigration that  is efficient and 
fair, and  we appreciate the need for additional finds to  improve scrvicc add impleiiient 
more funda~iie~ital rcforms that will better integrate IJSCIS programs with thc Nation's 
in~niigration cnforcenient and border control efforts. 

Yale is supportive of efforts to enhance the capabilities ol: IJSCIS, but we urge 

LJSCIS to set morc ambitious targets for. improving services.  As noted by 'IJSCIS in the 
PI-vposed rule, improvcrncnts and efficiencies in  scrvicc may not materialize until 200'2. 
We believe that today's  petitioners desel-ve much better scrvicc considering the size of 
the fee incrcascs.  The fee fol- an  1-765 (application for employment authorization),  for 
cxample, has already risen by nearly  I0 O/o annually since  19x9; the pending proposal 
would almost doi~ble the fee.  Other charges, such as the 1-485 fee. would be almost 
tl-ipled under thc USCIS proposal.  In our vicw substantial increases in fccs should be 
accornpanicd by more I-ohust and more tirncly inipr~vements in processing of 
applications.  Morcovcr, t h ~  USCIS should bc held accou~itable for nleetillg those scrvicc 
targtr;. 

We also believe it is incqu~table fol- petitioners, including sl~~dents who many 

havc limitcd access to financial resources, to subsidize the cost of processing applications 

APR-82-2887 

89:16 

GENERAL  COUNSEL 

by asylum-seekers and others who would enjoy (and perhaps deserve) fee waivers under 
the proposal.  In our view those costs should be funded from appropriations, not user 
fees. 

With respect to the fee increases, Yale is particularly concerned about the impact 

of proposed rule on those applying for 1-765s (application for employment authorization), 
1-539 (change or extension of nonirnmigrant status) and 1-485 (adjustment of status to 
permanent residence).  Each year, more than 300 Yale graduates apply for work 
authorization under the provision for F-1  Optional Practical Training (I-76S), a temporary 
employment authorization that gives F-1 students a1 opportunity to apply what they have 
learned in the classroom to a practical work experience off campus.  The increase in the 
fee, from $180 to $340, will be a significant burden for many international students,  In 
particular, those who apply to use Optical Practical Training for a summer internship, 
particularly in the public service and non-profit sectors where the compensation can be 
nominal could be prevented from participating.  Even if these students were able to 
finance the increase, current processing times are occasionally so delayed that students 
filing a timely application receive their work permission at the end of the summer, long 
after its planned use.  With SEVIS now fully operational, there is an alternative to USCIS 
adjudication of OPT applications, namely returning the authorization of OPT to the 
schools' Designated School Officials (DSOs) where it has resided in the past.  We would 
strongly urge DHS to re-instate this authority to DSOs. 

Similarly, the 1-539 application to extend or change nonimmigrant status increase 

from $200 to $300 will impact students and scholars and their dependents who must 
apply for an extension or change in nonimmigrant status.  In addition, the 1-485 
adjustment of status fee increase, from $325 to $905, is significant - and it applies 
whether or not the applicant intends to file for work  authorization and for travel. 
documents. 

Our two principal concerns -that  service improvement will be too little and too 
late, and that students especially will not be able to afford the fee increases - stem from 
the Administration's decision to fund USCIS operations almost entirely through 
application fees.  We recognize that the Immigration and Nationality Act sets the 
expectation that the USCIS will recover the full cost of the services and programs that it 
provides.  As the Government Accountability Office recently concluded, current fee 
levels are not sufficient to fund USCIS operations.  While Congressional appropriations 
have provided intermittent relief for visa backlogs and resolved some administrative 
problems, they have not provided the regular, predictable funding that is necessary to 
build a system that supports the dual service and security mission of USCIS. 

We believe there is a public benefit that would justify continued use of 
appropriations to support USCIS operations.  International students and scholars make 
significant contributions to high tech industries, not to mention local economies; and it is 
in the national interest to maintain affordable, efficient procedures for securing necessary 
authorizations.  If we are to continue to welcome visitors to our shores, attract top talent 
to our research universities and government laboratories, and provide the necessary 

APR-82-2887 

89:17 

GENERAL  COUNSEL 

workforce for our growing economy, the Administration should recognize the public role 
and the national interest in a system of immigration that is efficient, flexible and fair. 
Until that time, stop gap fimding mechanisms will deny this Nation the border and 
immigration security it needs and the competitive advantage that it requires. 

In conclusion, we appreciate the outreach USCIS and the Department of 
Homeland Security have provided to Yale and to the higher education community.  It is 
our hope that we can continue to communicate on how we might work together to 
advance our shared interests. 

Sincerely, 

* 

Dorothy K. Robinson 
Vice President and General Counsel