From: Mark and Greta Ehlers [mailto:mark_n_greta@hotmail.com]  
Sent: Tuesday, March 27, 2007 11:25 AM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: USCIS-2006-0044 

To Whom It May Concern: 

I am writing to express my concern and alarm at the proposed fee changes presented 
in Docket USCIS-2006-0044. Although I understand the necessity of finding a way to 
cover the costs of processing immigration issues associated with those seeking asylum 
as well as those apprehended as staying in the United States illegally, I strongly believe 
that those U.S. Citizens who are utilizing the services of the USCIS for adoption 
purposes be exempt from any fee increases.   

My husband and I have completed two international adoptions adding a total of four 
children to our family.  One adoption was completed privately and the other with the 
help of an adoption agency.  By far the largest cost factor in both adoptions was the 
fees collected by USCIS and the US Embassy in country.  In fact, we are currently 
feeling the strain of trying to figure out where the budget can give so we can come up 
with the almost $500 that would be required to obtain certificates of citzenship for 
our two newest sons.  Although we have enough money to sustain our family of 
seven, extra costs like that put a strain on other critical areas of our budget.  If the fees 
were to almost double, there would be almost no way we could afford to have that 
necessary documentation for our sons. 

I believe that the upgrades and changes proposed in docket USCIS-2006-0044 are 
important and necessary; however, I would like to request that the means by which 
those changes are to be financed be reconsidered.  Perhaps other means of paying for 
those things that are required could be found.   

Please, please, however, do not increase the burden on adoptive parents who are U.S. 
Citizens, especially at a time that the rate of orphans around the world is exploding.  
We are proud to represent our country as hands of compassion reaching out around 
the world, especially during times so many countries vehemently oppose our nation's 
policies.  It is an honor to be able to show through the act of adoption that the 
United States houses people of compassion and conviction who really do care about 
more than themselves.  I am fearful that a rate hike would inhibit individuals from 
being able to so represent our country as well as be part of the solution to the orphan 
crisis around the world. 

 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
Thank you very much for the opportunity to voice my concern and my lack of 
support for initiative USCIS-2006-0044.  I hopefully await hearing that other 
solutions will be considered. 

Sincerely, 

Greta Ehlers 
1314 W Rudisill Blvd 
Fort Wayne, IN  46807 
260-744-3818