0 2 / 1 5 / 2 0 0 7   1 5 : 3 1   FAX 4 4 0   3 9 5   1 8 1 3  

~ g ~ ~ s r n P / & m f l E ~  

PROGRESSIVE CAS  INS CO 

OF)  f?Ofo~fia 6 s  .%~&43cJ 

la001 

United States of America, it's  a land of Immigrants. Who would deny that? Well, I am 
very happy to make a decision to come to the States for my Masters Degree Program and 
eventually take a job  and ultimately deciding to immigrate permanently to the States. 
Well, let me take a moment to give me real honest feedback on this increase in the fee 
proposal. I greatly appreciate the fact that USA is a free country (almost..free) and no 
wonder why it is still one of the dominant powers I the world. I applied for my Green 
Card in Dec of 2004 and just recently got my labor approved. Well I applied for my 1-140 
and would eventually get it approved. Well After that I should have to just sit counting 
ducks due to retrogression issues. Iam completely OK with the increase in filing fees if 
you can explain to me clearly what the USCIS have been actively doing to do its part in 
relieving the retrogression related issues. I think this increase in fees is just  an other way 
of making more money without providing basic customer service. I usually get decent 
customer service when I go to one of those mom and pop stores in the States but not from 
USCIS. You guys do not hesitate to squeeze us for these hefty fees but yet take months 
and months to approve one silly labor certification application and 1-140 application. 
Forgot about processing those 1-485's. You just take more and more money and give us 
back less and less if not pathetic customer service. Looks like USCIS is just  a profit- 
oriented organization with no conscience. I am really very dis satisfied with the service 
you guys provide and I am actually considering to go back home where I was born. I 
don't  see anything you do regarding that retrogression and yet you are very pro active in 
raising these fees with no absolute regard and conscience, needless to say pathetic 
customer service you provide. In a democratic country like the USa you guys are just 
ripping us off with more and more fees just because no one can question you. Honestly, 
you should feel ashamed. I really, honestly and greatly oppose this fee increase unless 
you can really make a difference is what you are doing right now. Until then, Adios. 

Sincerely yours 
Very disappointed Customer of USCIS.