0 3 / 2 9 / 2 0 0 7   1 5 : 0 5   FAX 

3 1 7 8 0 6 0 1 5 1  

March 29,2007 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
United States Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
11 1 Massachusetts Ave., NW 3rd Floor 
Washington, D.C. 20529 

RE: DHS Docket No. USCIS 2006-0044 

Dear Director of Regulatory Management: 

As an elected official in Indiana, I write in strong opposition to the proposal by the 
United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) to increase the fees for 
starting the naturalization process.  Under the USCIS' proposal, the fee for filing the 
Form N-400 would increase from $330 to $595, and the biometrics fee would increase 
from $70 to $80, resulting in a total increase from $400 to $675.  The proposed 69% fee 
hike is an unfair burden for hardworking newcomers who wish to become U.S. citizens 
and participate in everythmg that this nation has to offer. 

The Metropolitan School District of Lawrence Township, Indianapolis, serves about 
1,500 immigrant students, many of whom are indigent.  The price increases make 
citizenship virtually impossible.  We do not want them to choose between the cost of 
purchasing fresh food and a citizenship filing fee. 

Currently, many newcomer families have limited resources, and they work tirelessly to 
save up the money required to pay the current $400 naturalization application cost. 
According to data from the U.S. Census, about one-third (36%) of non-citizen households 
have annual incomes that are less than $25,000.  Family members often want to pursue 
U.S. citizenship by applying for naturalization at the same time.  With the increase 
proposed by the USCIS, a family of four would confront a bill amounting to $2,700.  An 
exorbitant price tag should not stand in the way of families seeking to realize the 
American Dream. 

I do not oppose applicants paying a fee to apply for U.S. citizenship and commend the 
USCIS for taking the steps to improve customer services and processing times.  I also 
understand that the agency believes it needs to raise fees to pay for major infrastructure 
investments and process enhancements, such as improvements in the timeliness of 
background checks, modernization of its outdated business systems, facilities 
improvements and enhancements in its personnel training and recruitment programs. 
However, placing the full costs of these investments on the back of our nation's  legal 
permanent residents is driving fees to a level that immigrants simply cannot afford. 

I urge the USCIS to work with the President and Congress to obtain appropriations to 
supplement fee revenue to cover costs of major USCIS expenses such as infrastructure 
investments, process enhancements and capital improvements.  In the past, Congress has 

0 3 / 2 9 / 2 0 0 7   1 5 : 0 5   FAX 

3 1 7 8 0 6 0 1 5 1  

appropriated monies to assist the USCIS in facing challenges such as its application 
processing backlog.  The USCIS believes it needs to make significant investments to 
build an Immigration Service for the 21''  Century.  This is precisely the type of challenge 
that should be met through the partnership between applicants paying a reasonable fee 
and the appropriation of Congressional funding. 

Immigrants who apply for U.S. citizenship are eager to demonstrate their commitment to 
this country by becoming full participants in our nation's  civic life.  If they cannot 
become U.S. citizens because of an unfair fee hike, we will all lose an opportunity to 
strengthen and revitalize our democracy.  Our nation has a tradition of welcoming 
newcorners because of their contributions to our economic and social progress. The 
USCIS'  proposed fee increase is contrary to the spirit of this tradition and sends 
newcomers the wrong message at a time when they are seeking to embrace 
U.S. citizenship.  I urge you to halt the proposed naturalization fee increase, and seek 
appropriated funding to help cover the investments the USCIS needs to provide quality 
services at an affordable price. 

Thank you for your consideration of my views. 

.  . 

Hon. Henrv L. Fernandez. Ed.D. 
School ~ o k d  Member 
Metropolitan School District of 
Lawrence Township 

' 

7601 East 56th Street, 
Indianapolis, Indiana 46226