From: Ryan, Lynn [mailto:Lynn.Ryan@dsu.edu]  
Sent: Tuesday, February 06, 2007 2:32 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: DHS Docket No. USCIS- 2006-0044 

DHS Docket No. USCIS- 2006-0044  

In order to attend a university in the U.S. the families of international students must make huge 
sacrifices.  The majority of students don’t come from Europe where  higher education is free, but 
from countries whose economies fall very short of the U.S. economy.  As the government adopts 
the “user fee” philosophy we narrow the world economies from which international students will 
come.  Those countries where the majority struggle to live are the very countries where the U.S. 
needs to sow the seeds of democracy.  The students from these countries need to see how great 
it is to live in a democracy.  These countries are ripe for terrorism because of the dire economic 
circumstances. 

We currently, stupidly, do not allow international students to work off-campus where they might 
be able to help pay for their expenses and relieve their families of a portion of the burden.  And 
we are the only country which has this restriction on their international student population.  We 
allow millions of people who are here illegally to work and support their families, but the students 
who are here legally are not allowed to work!   

So now we want to increase the USCIS fees by, in some cases, 50%!  Some universities are 
already paying the SEVIS fee for their international students.  What part of throwing cold water on 
international student admissions do you not understand?   

Raising fees is, of course, necessary to cover inflation, but this country has not experienced a 
50% inflation rate since the fees were increased previously. 

The country benefits immeasurably from the presence of international student, so taxpayer 
dollars should also be used to pay for the expenses of the USCIS. “User fees” are fine for non-
essential services, but no one should be denied essential services because those services have 
become too expensive. 

The proposed fee increases are  exorbitant. 

Sincerely, 

Lynn Ryan, Director 

International Programs 

Dakota State University 

Madison, SD  57042