William Banks 
PO Box 17262 
Clearwater, FL 33762-0262 

March 26, 2007 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Ave.  NW, 3d Floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

 Director, Regulatory Management Division: 

As an attorney practicing in the field of immigration law, I have 
significant experience with the immigration process.   I am absolutely 
disgusted and appalled by the Service's proposal to radically increase its 
fees; in some instances threefold. 

In addition to questionable calculations DHS/USCIS has made in justifying 
the increase, it has also failed to account for its other revenues. The 
proposal further fails to consider circumstances whereby applicants may 
not need certain benefits, but would be required to pay for them anyway 
(i.e. EADs and travel documents in AOS applications). However, the most 
abhorrent spectre that the  proposed increase raises is the impact it will 
have on potential applicants. 

The fee increases will effectively impose a means test on the ability of 
immigrants to attain U.S. citizenship and/or other immigration benefits, 
which is contrary to our national interest and values.  Moreover, those 
foreign nationals who might otherwise seek immigration benefits may be 
deterred from doing so when they might have to sacrifice a significant 
portion of their living wages simply to pay one application fee! This is 
entirely unacceptable, particularly at a time when immigration reform is 
so much on the tongues of the American people. 

The Service has raised its fees in the recent past, ostensibly to ensure 
better service and more expedient processing times. However, with each 
passing fee increase, the service levels continue to fall, processing 
times continue to lag, and the level of competency of Service officers 
continues to wane. Indeed, despite all the reorganization, fee increases, 
funding increases, and "five dollar handles" assigned to government 
agencies post 9/11, it is abundantly clear to most seasoned immigration 
attorneys that USCIS is just as slow, inept, and incompetent as the INS 
was prior to 9/11. Throwing more money at the problem in the form of 
increased fees will not fix it - it never has and it never will. 

USCIS needs to make do with the fee structure that they currently have 
(some fees are already too high) and obtain funding through other more 
appropriate venues as delineated in the law. The problems of USCIS lies 
within - with the efficacy of its officers and processing procedures - not 
with the amounts of money already collected from fees and appropriations. 
USCIS needs to become introspective and do some major housecleaning, not 
just demand more money from applicants. This has been the long-standing 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
bloated government answer to every bureaucratic snafu (i.e. get more 
money) and history has shown that this has NEVER been an effective 
solution. Lastly, and most importantly, USCIS needs to cease its notion 
that it can operate with absoulte impunity from wrongdoing, and start 
becoming more accountable not only to those people that utilize its 
services, but also to the American taxpayers that demand a fair and 
equitable immigration system. 

Sincerely, 

William J. Banks, Esq.