April 2, 2007 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Ave., NW, 3rd Floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

RE: DHS Docket # USCIS-2006-0044 
Proposed Rule – Adjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit 
Application and Petition Fee Schedule 

On behalf of World Relief, please find the following comments regarding the above 
docket number.  World Relief opposes the immigration fee increases and urges USCIS to 
seek Congressional appropriations to cover additional costs. 

World Relief is an international humanitarian organization, headquartered in Baltimore, 
Maryland.  In the United States, our programs currently focus on assisting refugees, 
asylees, parolees, other immigrants, and victims of human trafficking.  In the U.S., we 
work with these populations in over twenty offices nationwide.  We have resettled nearly 
210,000 refugees since 1979.  For many of these refugees as well as countless other 
immigrants, we have provided affordable immigration legal services to low- and 
moderate-income immigrant families.  Our goal for all of our clients is to help them 
integrate as full community members in the United States.  Affordable and accessible 
immigration benefits such as family reunification, adjustment of status and U.S. 
citizenship are vital to this goal. 

We understand that USCIS is required to increase fee revenue to account for rising costs 
and the need to improve services.  However, we are greatly concerned that the steep fee 
increases proposed by USCIS will serve as a barrier and prevent eligible immigrants from 
taking the necessary steps to become citizens.  It is in our nation’s interest, and consistent 
with our tradition as a nation of immigrants, to encourage rather than discourage 
immigrant integration and citizenship.  We believe that the proposed fee increases do not 
advance these goals.  We are concerned with all fee increases, but especially those for 
adjustment of status, naturalization, and family reunification benefits. 

Barriers for Adjustment Applicants 

We greatly appreciate that USCIS is continuing to exempt the filing fee for adjustment 
applications for refugees.  We believe this is an important component to their ability to 
integrate into U.S. society, and thereby secure their safety.  However, we have long been 
concerned that asylees and public interest parolees (such as Cuban and Lautenberg 
parolees) are still required to pay the adjustment fee.  The proposed adjustment fee 
increase for all groups except for refugees causes us great concern. 

Imagine, for example, a family of Cuban parolees who have two parents and two children 
under the age of 14 years.  They would be required to pay $3420 alone for the adjustment 
filing fees for these family members, plus biometric fees, fees for medical examinations, 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and often legal fees.  These total costs could easily exceed $4000.   A worker making 
minimum wage would need to work for nearly five months in order to pay these fees 
alone.  Moreover, although asylees and parolees have fled their countries of persecution, 
they are not eligible for regular refugee resettlement benefits.  

Parolees and asylees should apply for adjustment one year after their arrival or grant of 
asylum, respectively.  It often takes time for them to even find employment, and many 
times it will be for minimum wage or slightly above.  Thus, it will be a great hardship on 
many families to be able to apply for adjustment when they should, especially under the 
proposed fees. 

Costs of Interim Benefits Should Be Separate from the I-485 Adjustment Fee   

We oppose the consolidation of costs for adjustment applications to include travel 
documents and employment authorization.  Many adjustment applicants do not file for 
renewed employment authorization or advance parole.  Other adjustment applications 
will be approved before the need for interim benefits.  We support the current status quo 
system of applicants paying for the actual benefits they need as they need them, instead 
of paying a high lump sum that includes benefits they may not need. 

Fee Waivers for All Application Types Should Be Allowed  

We strongly recommend that USCIS maintain the right for anyone applying for an 
immigration benefit to apply for a fee waiver.  We are especially concerned that this right 
be maintained for adjustment applicants.  In particular, the lack of available waiver will 
be extremely detrimental to many asylees, parolees, victims of human trafficking, victims 
of domestic violence, and children applying for Special Immigrant Juvenile Status.  All 
of these groups are extremely vulnerable because of the situations in which they are 
living.  Preventing them from applying for a fee waiver will only exacerbate their 
vulnerability if they cannot collect the funds necessary to apply for adjustment and its 
related costs. 

USCIS has indicated that a fee waiver should not be available for I-485s because 
applicants are required to demonstrate that they meet public charge.  However, not all 
applicants applying for adjustment are required to show they will not become a public 
charge.  For this reason and because humanitarian situations will arise, we encourage 
USCIS to retain the right for applicants to apply for fee waivers.  We are especially 
concerned that this right remain a possibility for adjustment applications but would 
encourage USCIS to consider it for all applications.  

Barriers for Family Reunification and Naturalization 

We are also very concerned about the increased costs of family reunification and 
naturalization.  The proposed increased price of family reunification to $355 for an I-130 
alone will likely lead to many families not being able to file for relatives at all, because 
they cannot afford the filing fees.  For others, it will cause delays in filing applications, as 
they must save up the money to pay the fees.  These delays will add to the total waiting 
time for family reunification, including current backlog processing.  

2

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additionally, we are very concerned with the proposed cost of the naturalization fee.  
Many of our offices have active naturalization programs, often being supported by state 
programs.  We already have many clients whose files sit pending in our offices for long 
periods of time, because they cannot afford the current naturalization fees.  If the fees go 
up to $595 as proposed, we expect many more people to be unable to file their 
applications.  This financial deterrent would lead to lower naturalization rates and thereby 
cause less full community integration by immigrants. 

The Cost of Modernizing the Agency Should Not Be Borne Entirely by Immigrants 

USCIS has in recent years obtained appropriated funds from Congress so it could make 
investments needed to reduce application backlogs.  We urge USCIS to continue to seek 
appropriated funds for some of the expenses described in the proposed rule.   

Immigration benefits our entire country and we as a nation should help pay for it.  
Immigrants help revitalize our communities and our economy.  We should be 
encouraging immigrants to become part of our community by gaining legal status and 
becoming citizens.  We should not be setting up barriers to block their path and keep 
them out, which is what this dramatic fee increase would do. 

We stand ready to work with USCIS to seek additional Congressional funding for 
adjudication and infrastructure costs but believe it is imperative for USCIS to 
affirmatively seek necessary appropriations to carry out these functions.  Unless this 
happens, the proposed fee increase will go into effect and many deserving and qualified 
immigrants will be shut out of the process of becoming citizens and fully integrated into 
our society. 

Conclusion 

In summary, we urge USICS to reconsider the proposed fee increases, to examine its 
costs more closely, and to seek Congressional appropriations for enhancements and 
modernization.  If you have any questions regarding these comments, please contact Amy 
J. Bliss, Immigration Legal Services Staff Attorney, at 443-451-1992 or abliss@wr.org.   
Thank you for your careful consideration of these comments. 

Sincerely, 

Sammy Mah 
President and CEO 
World Relief 

3