4 / 2 / 2 0 0 7   2 : 5 5 : 2 6   PM 

PAGE  0 0 1 / 0 0 4  

Fax  Server 

LEGAL SERVICES OF NEW JERSEY, INC. 
100 Metroplex Drive at Plainfield Avenue 
Suite 402 
P.O.  Box 1357 
Edison, New Jersey 08818-1357 
(732) 572-91 00 
Fax: (732) 572-0066 
TDD: (732) 572-9101 

TELECOPY COVER SHEET 

DATE: 

April 2, 2007 

TO: 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 

FAX #: 

866-466-5370 

FROM: 

Melville D. Miller, Jr. 
Tim Block 
Shifra Rubin 
Legal Services of New Jersey 

RE: 

DHS Docket #USCIS-2006-0044 

# PAGES: 

3 + 1 (cover sheet) 

SPECIAL INSTRUCTION OR MESSAGE: 

If there are any problems with this transmittal, please call (732) 572-9100. 

4 / 2 / 2 0 0 7   2 : 5 5 : 2 6   PM 

PAGE  0 0 2 / 0 0 4  

Fax  S e r v e r  

Legal Services of New Jersey 
I 0 0  Metroplex Drive at Plainfield Avenue 
Suite 402, P.O. Box 1357 
Edison, New Jersey 08818-1357 
Phone: (732) 572-9100 
Fax: (732) 572-0066 
E-mail: Isnj@lsnj.org 
www.lsnj.org 

April 2,2007 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
U.S.  Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of gomeland security 
11 1 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, 31d floor 
Washington D.C.  20529 

RE:  DHS Docket # USCIS-2006-0044 

Proposed rule-Adjustment  of the Immigration and Naturalization 
Benefit Application and Petition Fee Schedule 

Dear Sir or Madam: 

On behalf of Legal Services of New Jersey, I am writing to oppose the increase 
to  immigration and  naturalization  fees that  U.S.  Citizenship and  Immigration 
Services (USCIS) proposed on February 1,2007.  Legal Services of New Jersey 
provides legal representation in civil cases for low-income New Jersey residents 
with income below 200% of the federal poverty line including many immigrants 
seeking regularize their status in the United States. 

While  we  applaud  USCIS  efforts  to  increase  the  quality  and  efficiency  of 
services as well as streamline applications and eliminate unnecessary fees, they 
do not justify the prohibitive fee  increases proposed.  These fee increases will 
create significant hardships for low income immigrants and create what would 
often amount to insurmountable barriers to filing the necessary applications. 

Of particular concern are the proposed fees for naturalization and adjustment of 
status.  The  proposed  increase  in  the  naturalization fee  from  $330  to  $595 
means an increase of 80 percent.  For a single adult living at  100 percent of the 
federal  poverty  line  (FPL),  the  new  naturalization  f e e n o t   including  the 
biometrics fee required of each applicant-amounts 
to six percent of his or her 
yearly income or the entire earnings for a three week period. 

More alarming still is the proposed increase in the adjustment of status fee from 
its  current  rate  of  $305  to  $905.  With  the  proposed  fee  increase  and  the 
biometric fee included in the cost to an applicant, the total fee is close to $1,000. 

C o o r d i n a t i n g  New Jersey's  Legal S e r v i c e s  System 

Melville D.  Miller,  Jr. 
President and General Counsel 
Dawn K.  Miller 
Executive Vice President 
and Assistant General Counsel 
Claudine M.  Langrln 
Senior Vice President 
and Assistant General Counsel 
Harris Davld 
Vice President 
and Assistant General Counsel 
Connie Pascale 
Vice President 
and Assistant General Counsel 
Kristin A.  Matao 
Vice President 
and Assistant General Counsel 
Jo Anne T.  Mantr 
Assistant Vice President 
and Assistant General Counsel 
Rita E.  Robleg-Navas 
Assistant Vice President 
and Assistant Geneni Counsel 

Senior Attorneys 
Mary J. Acevedo 
Andrea Auerbach 
Regan Almonor 
Deborah Fennelly 
Stephanie Setzer 
Timothy R. Block 
Linda M. Garibaldi 
Michele Olvera 
David McMiliin 
Maura Sanders 
Cary Winsiow 
James Treanar 
Rosendo R. Socarns 
Carrie Ferram 
Gwen Oriowski 
Keith Talbot 
Mary M.  WManus-Smith 
Sherril Reckord 
Joshua Spielberg 

Supervising Attorneys 
Rachel R. Elkin 
Shifra Rubin 
Henry P. Wolfe 
Ingrid D. Johnson 

Assistant Supervising Attorneys 
Samir Lone 
Miiva L. Diaz 
Gail A. Spence 

Staff Attorneys 
Dan Fiorio 
Danielie Joseph 
Monica Gun1 
Engy Abdelkader 
Marcia E. Suarez 
Marcie Harrison 
Nicole A.  Palmien 
Elliot Harris 
Alice Kwong 
Anne Calle 
Yoianda Gonzaler 
Kathleen Peterson 
Linda Babecki 
Lazio Beh 
Kevin Liebkemann 
John A. Salair 
Diana Dunker 
Douglas Greene 
Sarah Hymowitz 
Rachel E. Saiazar 
Jocelyn Pndgen 
Annie 8. Smith 

LSNJ 

4 / 2 / 2 0 0 7   2 : 5 5 : 2 6   PM 

PAGE  0 0 3 / 0 0 4  

Fax Server 

US Citizenship and Immigration Services 
April 2,2007 
Page 2 of 3 

For a family of four with two children and an estimated income of 130 percent of the FPL, the cost of one 
application would cost nearly four percent of their annual income or two weeks of family paychecks.  If 
such a family were to have  to apply for three family members, one adult and two children, the proposed 
fees would consume in excess of ten percent of their annual income or five and half weeks of paychecks. 
Even at an income at 200 percent of FPL the application fee for one adult would constitute roughly two 
and  a  half  percent  of the  family's  annual income.  If they were  to  apply for three  family members, it 
would account for almost seven percent of their annual income-nearly 
three and a half weeks of work. 
Unfortunately, for many families this level of expenditure is unrealistic and families choose to apply for 
one family member at a time and wait until they  can save the money needed to  send for the rest  of the 
family.  The likely impact of such an expense and separation on the quality of life of a child is particularly 
alarming, especially if the family is already living paycheck-to-paycheck. 

Indeed, New  Jersey families at  130 and  200 percent  of the federal poverty  line are already  living with 
incredible  low-incomes  given  the  cost  of  living  in  the  state.  A  study  prepared  by  LSNJ's  Poverty 
Research Institute shows that the real cost of living for a family of three in New Jersey (composed of two 
adults and an infant) is around $41,000 a year or 255% of the federal poverty line.  For a family of four 
(with two adults, one school-aged and one preschool aged child) the real cost of living in New Jersey is 
around $50,000 a year or 245% of the federal poverty line. 

Without a doubt, these proposed fee increases impose an undue burden on legal and lawful immigrants 
eager to acquire permanent residency and citizenship in the United States.  At the same time, immigrants 
are unlikely  to  be  discouraged from  continuing to  look  for  economic  opportunities in  the  U.S.  It  is, 
therefore, of no  small concern that the imposition of these increased fees could prevent immigrants kom 
seeking lawful and legal means to working  and living within the United States.  In effect, the proposed 
fees would likely counteract USCIS'  intent of providing added safety and security for these immigrants. 

USCIS argues that there it has no option but to raise fees in order to cover its costs.  There are, however, 
no  laws that  require USCIS  to  fund  operations  entirely through fees.  Indeed,  USCIS  has  sought  and 
received Congressional funding several times.  Given the concerns for safety and security as well as the 
adverse impact and serious barriers the proposed fee increases will create for low-income immigrants it 
seems imperative that USCIS not ignore Congress as a source of funds. 

Additionally,  applicants  for  adjustment  of  status  and  other  benefits  under  the  INA  are  in  need  of  a 
generous  fee waiver  system  that  reflects  their  financial  reality  as  outlined  above  in  the  case  of  New 
Jersey's  immigrant  population.  Such  a  system  should  apply  not just  to  self-petition applications and 
naturalization, but to fees for work authorization, adjustment of status and other applications.  This should 
include obtaining adjustment of status and permanent residence for those seeking to apply based  on the 
following provisions: 

1) 
2) 
3) 
4) 
5) 
6) 

Approved self-petitioners; 
Registry applicants under INA $249; 
Special Immigrant Juvenile applicants; 
Approved Widowler of U.S. citizens; 
Asylees; and 
T and U visa applicants. 

LSNJ 

4 / 2 / 2 0 0 7   2 : 5 5 : 2 6   PM 

PAGE  0 0 4 / 0 0 4  

Fax Server 

US Citizenship and Immigration Services 
April 2,2007 
Page 3 of 3 

The  current system provides for  such waivers, and  it  is  crucial that these provisions not  be  abolished. 
Eliminating or restricting access to fee waivers for these applications will undermine Congress'  goal to 
protect  and provide  secure  status to  immigrant survivors of  domestic violence, unaccompanied minors, 
registry applicants, asylees, and survivors of other crimes. 

USCIS'  contention  that  public  charge  concerns  make  fee  waivers  inappropriate  for  those  seeking 
adjustment  of  status  is  misplaced  and  inaccurate.  Not  only  did  Congress  mandate  access  to  self- 
petitioning for  domestic violence  survivors,  it  also  smoothed the  path  to  lawful  permanent  residence, 
including relaxing public  charge considerations at the  adjustment phase.  Self-petitioners, those  seeking 
Special Immigrant Juvenile status, U and T visa applicants, asylees and others should be able to overcome 
public charge concerns even if they obtain fee waivers. 

USCIS also argues that regular family-based petitioners should be ineligible for fee waivers because they 
must  submit  affidavits  of  support. Given the visa  quota system and processing backlogs, many regular 
family-based immigrant  applicants who need fee waivers at the  initial phase may  be  able to  overcome 
public  charge concerns by the time USCIS adjudicates their adjustment applications.  This approach, in 
fact,  comports  with  USCIS  own  instructions  on  considering  public  charge  as  a  prospective  test. 
Applicant choice, not inaccurate USCIS assumptions, should determine access to the fee waiver  system. 
USCIS should retain the existing fee waiver system and not restrict it. 

USCIS should wait to see what Congress enacts in the coming year before suggesting new fees. The new 
law may create a new stream of money.  Moreover, USCIS should not rely  solely on fees to support its 
operations. It should ask Congress for direct support instead, which Congress has provided in the past. 

For all these reasons, the proposal to increase immigration fees and change the current fee waiver system 
is  imprudent and  will  prove ineffective in accomplishing the  goals  of  the  DHS.  Rather than  shift the 
burden to selected groups of immigrants, we urge USCIS to reconsider this proposal, to retain the existing 
fee waiver system and fees, and to seek other sources of funding for its operations.  Thank you for your 
consideration. 

Sincerely, 

\ Q  

Melville D. Miller. Jr. 

President and General Co  sel I. 

i 

e 

T i o t h v  R. Block 
Senior kttorney 

Supervising Attorney