-----Original Message----- 
From: mail.relay@mailmanager.net [mailto:mail.relay@mailmanager.net] On 
Behalf Of Cynthia Tasaki 
Sent: Thursday, March 01, 2007 3:08 PM 
To: USCIS Comments 
Subject: DHS Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044 - USCIS Fee Increase Comment 

Cynthia Tasaki 
3721 Foxfield Lane 
Fairfax, VA 22033-1302 

March 1, 2007 

USCIS Comments 

Dear USCIS Comments: 

I am writing to you as an international educator in opposition to the 
February 1, 2007, proposed rule "Adjustment of the Immigration and 
Naturalization Benefit Application and Petition Fee Schedule."  The 
proposed fee increases are so exorbitant they will act as a 
disincentive 

for international students and scholars to study and work in the United 
States.  I have worked with a few student athletes or students on 
government scholarships from poor countries that  had delayed until the 
very last minute to apply for their international student work benefit, 
Optional Practical Training (I-765 based permit), because they could 
not 

afford the fee even when it was $120.  Student athlete's scholarship 
money is limited by NCAA rules, which don't leave extras for things 
like work permits. 

International students already bring financial benefit to the United 
States, and their post-completion employment is a benefit to U.S.  
Employers.  Even with the current fee at $180, I have a hard time 
explaining why it costs that much when it clearly takes less than an 
hour of the adjudicator's time to approve and the card is not unusually 
more expensive than a driver's license.  It would be extremely unfair 
to significantly raise the fee for the Severe unforseen economic 
necessity work permit, also an I-765, based form.  With the proposed 
fee increase it would go from $180 to $340. 

USCIS must reconsider the role of appropriated funds to meet the 
administrative needs of the agency.  I ask that fees be reduced to the 
actual cost of processing the application or petition.   

International students and scholars, and campus officials that employ 
them, file tens of thousands of petitions and applications with USCIS 
annually, including:  

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   Please consider making more money by charging diplomats for the same 
services that others use.  It is not fair for our  richest students not 
pay the fee for a change of status from A-2 or G-4 to F-1, while the 
poor 
F-2 spouse of an F-1 student  pays the whole fee for a change of 
status, 

when it is unreasonable from the start not to let an F-2 study in a 
degree program. 
 I-539 application to change nonimmigrant status, and the increase from 
$190 to $320 (a 68 percent increase) in the I-129 petition for 
nonimmigrant worker.  These fees are on top of the required data 
collection and fraud prevention fee, which is not part of the fee 
schedule. 

Apart from the direct impact of the excessive fees, they are contrary 
to 

clearly expressed U.S. policies.  The President, the Secretary of 
State, 

and indeed the Secretary of Homeland Security have expressed clearly 
and 

often the high value that the United States places on attracting 
international students and scholars to this country.  The United States 
reaps immeasurable benefits-for our foreign policy, our students'  
education, our economy, our competitiveness, and our public diplomacy-
from attracting the best and brightest minds and the next generation of 
world 

leaders to America's educational institutions. 

Regrettably, the increased fees will reinforce the inefficiencies and 
dysfunctionalities USCIS inherited from INS when the Department of 
Homeland Security was created.  The solution to correcting the systemic 
problems that plague the agency is not to keep raising fees in a futile 
attempt to finance a twenty-first century agency.  Unfortunately, to 
meet its statutory requirements, USCIS is turning to its only steady 
source of funding, its filers and petitioners, to finance the required 
modernization of its systems.  While that is understandable, it is not 
acceptable as a 

matter of public policy, because it prices statutory benefits out of 
the 

reach of those who need them.   

The fact that USCIS operates on a fee-funded basis creates a built-in 
incentive to subsidize unnecessary work.  This creates an incentive to 
requiring USCIS approval for things; that way, you can charge a fee for 
processing the request, which provides necessary income to finance your 
broader operations.  The I-765 fee for Optional Practical Training is a 
classic example.  It used to be possible for school officials 
designated 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
by the INS to approve OPT in accordance with agency regulations.  The 
benefits of reinstituting and expanding this process speak for 
themselves:  
 no application, no processing, no fee, one less task to be performed 
by 

the agency, more time to devote to what the agency really needs to do.   
There is no obvious public policy reason for USCIS to require agency 
approval for OPT today.  With the Student and Exchange Visitor 
Information System (SEVIS) now fully in place, it would be easy to 
devolve this responsibility back onto the schools.  Yet the cost of 
processing this unnecessary application process continues to drive up 
the fee.   

While I understand that USCIS is permitted by law to recover the full 
cost of its services through fees, and indeed has no other option so 
long as Congress is unwilling to appropriate funds for the operation of 
the agency, I ask that the fees be reduced to the actual cost of 
processing the application or petition.  Meanwhile, I ask Congress to 
step up to its responsibility for fixing the untenable situation that 
drives these fee increases. 

Thank you for the opportunity to comment. 

Sincerely, 

Cynthia Tasaki 
(703)378-6665 

This message has been verified by CapwizXC as authentic and sent by 
this 

individual.  Authentication ID: [VTE27Qe1] 

Changed message text: 32.5%