February 1, 2007 

Director 
Regulatory Management Division 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security  
111 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, 3rd Floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

REF: DHS Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044 

Dear Director: 

I would like to express my opposition to the proposed immigration benefit application fee 

increases.   

The US Citizenship and Immigration Service has become a few based agency and as such 

must review its current fees to balance out the cost of processing and adjudicating immigration 
related forms. Additionally, Director Emilio Gonzalez has the safety and integrity of our 
immigration system at heart when determining the need for a fee increase to ensure quality 
service to applicants while at the same time ensuring that the security of the system is not 
breached.  

However, in reviewing the proposed increases, I have found that certain increases will be 

an incredible burden to many applicants who, as law abiding members of our community, are 
trying to earn a living and feed their families.  For example, the fee increase proposed for the I-
765 employment authorization card seems excessive. The current fee is $180 and if the proposed 
increase is implemented, the fee would be $340. This fee is almost doubled, yet this would affect 
the most needy members of our nation whose only interest is to work legally in the United States.  
Also, the I-485 application to become a permanent resident is currently $325 and will be more 
than triple that amount at $905 per person (plus $80 for fingerprints), if the fee increase is 
implemented. Young families seeking to establish residence in our great nation will be faced 
with thousands of dollars in costs in order to have the privilege of working and adjusting their 
status. 

Many elderly immigrants in our community are anxious to become US citizens.  Many 
live on fixed incomes and would also be unable to apply for US citizenship as the cost would 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
increase to well over $500.  Becoming a citizen of the United States is a priceless honor, 
however, this increase would make citizenship unattainable to many U.S. permanent residents.  

Although I am aware that USCIS offers a fee waiver for many applications, it has been 

my experience that fee waivers are seldom granted.  Additionally, there are no guidelines for fee 
waiver applications, making it difficult for applicants to ascertain their eligibility prior to 
submitting a fee waiver that can take months to adjudicate. 

Undeniably, we all want a better and more productive client oriented Service, but we 

should also take into account the impact that these large increases will have on the members of 
our community who most need and use these services. Increases in fees should go hand in hand 
with better service and shorter wait times for processing of immigration forms 

I encourage the Director to review these proposed increases and reconsider the excessive 

increases to such applications.  

Sincerely, 

Ileana Ros-Lehtinen 
Member of Congress