From: Marlene Myers [mailto:marlene.myers@ncmail.net]  
Sent: Tuesday, March 27, 2007 3:19 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: USCIS- 2006-0044 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
US Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Ave. NW, 3rd floor 
Washington DC 20529. 

RE: DHS Docket # USCIS-2006-0044 


Proposed rule 
Application and Petition Fee Schedule 

 Adjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit 

The NC Refugee Advisory Council is deeply concerned about the proposed 
USCIS fee increase referenced above. Our member agencies include public, 
private non-profit and ethnic organizations that help newly arrived 
refugees become established community members. 

We are deeply troubled by the sheer size and scope of the fee increase. 
USCIS plans to increase citizenship fees from $400 ($330 application fee 
plus $70 fingerprinting fee) to $675 ($595 application fee plus $80 
fingerprinting fee), an increase of 69 percent. It would also raise fees 
for 37 other immigration and naturalization petitions and applications 
at an average increase of 66 percent. Furthermore, it appears that the 
increase will take place at once rather than being spread out over a 
period of time. 

Rapid fee hikes of such magnitude will have a disproportionate and 
detrimental impact on the NC refugee and asylee community. While 
refugees in NC are very eager to be economically self-sufficient and 
work very hard to achieve this, they are often only able to cover the 
necessities. The proposed fees are not something that most 
refugee/asylee families can manage with the limited income they are able 
to earn in their first 5 years in country. It is a shame that they may 
be forced to postpone naturalization because of the filing fees rather 
than be allowed to become fully integrated with the right to vote at the 
first opportunity. 

-A family of four LPRs who want to apply for U.S. citizenship at the 
same time will now have to have $2,700 at their disposal in order to 
achieve their American dream together. 

-A family of four which has been granted asylum in the U.S. and is 
applying for permanent residence will now need $3,620 in hand in order 
to apply for permanent residence. 

-Furthermore, asylees applying for permanent residence will be 
ineligible to apply for fee waivers, no matter how dire their financial 
situation may be, because USCIS intends to categorically eliminate fee 
waivers for I-485 applications for adjustment as a part of the fee 
increase. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-The proposal would also prohibit U.S. citizens and LPRs from requesting 
fee waivers on I-130 relative petitions on the grounds that the 
petitioners must file affidavits of support to show that they can 
support their beneficiaries should they be unable to do so themselves. 

Member agencies of the NC Refugee Advisory Council are dismayed at the 
proposal to eliminate fee waivers on certain applications and petitions. 
This action adds salt to the wound of higher fees when the option for 
relief is eliminated. I urge USCIS not to implement these provisions. 
Low income families or individuals who have experienced an economic 
crisis urgently need the option of fee relief available to them. 

Given the speed, scope and scale of the proposed fee increase, we 
believe that USCIS customers must receive faster, greater, and more 
concrete improvements in processing times and customer service. The fee 
increase proposal itself does not appear to set forth any concrete 
targets for improvement in these areas. 

Finally, we believe that certain improvements which the USCIS wants to 
finance through the fee increase would be better addressed through the 
normal budget and appropriations process. For instance, while we support 
USCIS s efforts to improve its fraud detection capacity and to modernize 
its business and technological infrastructure, we do not believe that 
immigrants and their families should bear the sole burden for these 
efforts. 



In conclusion, we urge USCIS to reconsider the proposed fee increase. We 
hope that the agency will work with immigrant communities, and with 
Congress, to develop a functioning, effective immigration system that 
will benefit our country. 

-- 

Marlene Myers 

NC State Refugee Coordinator 

Phone: 919-733-4650 x 305; Fax: 919-733-0645 

NC Division of Social Services 

"This document and/or its attachments may contain sensitive information 
that requires protection under federal or state law. If you are an 
authorized recipient of such information, you are required to protect it 
in a safe, secure and confidential manner." 

"If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any 
disclosure, copying, distribution or action taken in reliance on the 
contents of those documents is strictly prohibited. You are requested to 
notify the sender immediately, delete the email with any accompanying 
attachments, and destroy any copies you may have made."