From: Matt Adams [mailto:matt@NWIRP.ORG]  
Sent: Thursday, March 22, 2007 7:23 PM 
To: OSComments 
Cc: Matt Adams 
Subject: Response to proposed fee increase 

NORTHWEST IMMIGRANT RIGHTS PROJECT 
Proyecto para los Derechos de Inmigrantes 

Western Washington Office 
615 Second Ave., Ste 400 
Seattle, WA 98104 
Phone: (206) 587-4009 
or (800) 445-5771 
Fax: (206) 587-4025 

March 22, 2007 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
US Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Ave. NW, 3rd floor 
Washington DC 20529. 

RE:  DHS Docket # USCIS-2006-0044 
Proposed rule— Adjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit 
Application and Petition Fee Schedule 

On behalf of Northwest Immigrant Rights Project, I am writing to vehemently 
voice our opposition to the dramatic, and frankly, shocking increase to 
immigration and naturalization fees, the elimination of VAWA self-petitioning 
fees, and changes to the fee waiver system that US Citizenship and Immigration 
Services (USCIS) proposed on February 1, 2007.   

Northwest Immigrant Rights Project is the only full-service immigration legal 
service provider for the low income immigrant communities in the State of 
Washington.  Each year we represent hundreds of individuals who are applying 
for immigration benefits like family visa petitions (including VAWA self-petitions), 
adjustment of status to lawful permanent residence, employment authorization, 
removal of conditions of residence, and naturalization.  All of our clients qualify 
for our services by demonstrating that they do not have the resources to retain a 
private attorney. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Whether an applicant is a self-petitioner under VAWA, or an applicant seeking 
any other immigration benefit, like a family visa or initial employment 
authorization, what is needed is a reasonable fee structure and a generous fee 
waiver system that does not ignore the financial reality of the applicants. These 
principles should apply uniformly to all applicants. 

Thus, even though a large part of our work focuses on representing immigrant 
survivors of domestic violence and other crimes, we oppose eliminating the self-
petition fee, especially as this is tied in to eliminating fee waivers as an option 
outside of the self-petitioning context.   In taking this position we want to make 
clear that may victims of domestic violence obtain legal status through 
application processes other than VAWA self-petitions.  In addition, victims of 
domestic violence are at times, like other applicants able to pay the filing fees.  It 
is unfair to then uniformly pass the complete burden of filing fees to persons 
applying for other types of benefits.  Indeed, victims of domestic violence often 
my rely on other family members or friends who would be harmed by the general 
fee increases, which would then make the situation even more precarious for 
victims of domestic violence.  

We also strongly disagree with USCIS’ suggestion that public charge concerns 
make fee waivers inappropriate for those seeking adjustment of status.  This is 
once again true for all applicants, but is especially noteworthy for self-petitioners 
under VAWA.  Congress implemented a statutory scheme to ensure that self-
petitioners would be able to obtain lawful permanent residence.  Thus, self-
petitioners, and others similarly situated, like those seeking special immigrant 
juvenile status, U and T visa applicants, asylees are able to overcome public 
charge concerns even if they obtain fee waivers.  Indeed, many applicants 
coming from poverty simply need the opportunity to demonstrate that once they 
are given a chance, they will be able to support themselves, and additionally, will 
be strong, positive members of the community. 

For the same reasons we strongly disagree with the USCIS assertion that regular 
family-based petitioners should be ineligible for fee waivers because they must 
submit affidavits of support. Given the visa quota system and processing 
backlogs, many regular family-based immigrant applicants who need fee waivers 
at the initial phase may be able to overcome public charge concerns by the time 
USCIS adjudicates their adjustment applications.  This approach, in fact, 
comports with USCIS own instructions on considering public charge as a 
prospective test.  

As a service provider for the low income immigrant communities in Washington 
State, we are well aware that many immigrants already struggle to pay 
immigration fees.  The proposed increases in these fees will create a formidable 
financial barrier for thousands of immigrants who qualify under the law for the 
immigration benefits in question.  Drastically enhanced fees, coupled with 
restrictions on fee waivers, will force many hard-working immigrants into 

 
 
 
 
undocumented status.  Such persons will become more vulnerable to exploitation 
and crime victimization and less able to contribute to our communities and formal 
economy.  This result confounds attempts at immigration reform by forcing 
people to become undocumented instead of encouraging them to gain secure 
legal status. 

If the current fees do not cover agency expenses, then the agency should 
request direct support from Congress, just like most other agencies receive, and 
indeed, like INS has received in the past. 

Given the drastic impact that these increased fees will have on the low-income 
immigrant communities that we serve, we urge USCIS to reconsider this 
proposal.  Rather, the agency should retain the existing fee waiver system and 
seek other sources of funding for its operations.  Thank you for your 
consideration. 

Sincerely, 

Matt Adams 
Legal Director 

Northwest Immigrant Rights Project 
615 Second Ave., Ste. 400 
Seattle, WA  98104 
(206) 957-8611 
(206) 587-4025 fax