Stacy Terrell 
1 Stable Way 
Fredericksburg, VA 22407-1479 

April 2, 2007 

Director Regulatory Management Commission 

Dear Director Regulatory Management Commission: 

April 2, 2007 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Ave., NW, 3rd floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

RE:   DHS Docket # USCIS-2006-0044 
Proposed rule ? Adjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit 
Application and Petition Fee Schedule 

To Whom it May Concern: 

I write to strongly oppose the increase of immigration and naturalization 
fees that the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) proposed 
on February 1, 2007.  Every day immigrants and refugees already struggle 
to pay immigration fees.  The steep increases proposed by USCIS would make 
it much more difficult to gain permanent resident status, reunite with 
family members, and become a U.S. citizen.  USCIS should be helping 
immigrants become citizens, not making it harder. 

I have worked for the past several years to help legal permanent residents 
fill out their applications for US Citizenship.  I have also taught 
citizenship classes for those who have already processed their application 
but are wanting to prepare for the test.  It is one of the most fulfilling 
volunteer opportunitites I have ever participated in, but sadly the 
classes are getting smaller and smaller.  Students have had to wait for 
several years until they can earn enough money to apply for citizenship.  
Many of these Legal Permanent Residents speak perfect English and have 
better knowledge of the US government than many native born americans, but 
they are forced to put their dream of becoming a citizen on hold because 
they simply cannot afford it.  

USCIS claims that the fee increase is necessary to improve service, and 
USCIS definitely needs to improve service.  While I applaud USCIS?s 
efforts to improve service, I do not think that the entire cost should 
rest on immigrants who are already paying taxes, working hard, and 
struggling to pay high fees while receiving poor service.  

Immigration and citizenship are public goods that benefit our entire 
country and that we as a nation should help pay for.  Immigrants work 
hard, pay taxes, and help revitalize our communities.  In becoming 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
citizens, immigrants demonstrate their strong commitment to their new home 
country by learning English, gaining knowledge about American history and 
government, and swearing allegiance to the United States.  We should be 
encouraging immigrants to become part of our community by gaining legal 
status and becoming citizens, not setting up barriers that block their 
path and keep them out.  

For all these reasons, I strongly oppose the proposed fee increases and 
urge USCIS to reconsider this proposal, and to seek other sources of 
funding for its operations, rather than add more burdens on immigrants.  
Thank you for your consideration. 

Sincerely, 

Stacy Terrell 

Sincerely, 

Stacy Terrell