Director Regulatory Management Division U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, 3rd Floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

Dear Director U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, 

On behalf of Brooklyn Center for the Performing Arts at Brooklyn 
College and the audiences we serve, I submit these comments in 
response to the proposed rule published in 72 Fed. Reg. 
4888-4915 (February 1, 2007) to adjust the immigration and 
naturalization benefit application and petition fee schedule. 

Brooklyn Center for the Performing Arts is a 501 (c) (3), 
nonprofit institution located on the campus of Brooklyn College, 
with an annual operating budget of approximately $1.5 million. 
Founded in 1954, the mission of Brooklyn Center is to present 
performing arts and arts education programs, reflective of 
Brooklyn's diverse communities, at affordable prices. Each year, 
Brooklyn Center presents an array of outstanding programs, 
including dance, theater, music, opera and family events, 
reflective of Borough's many distinct communities that include 
the African, African-American, Asian, Caribbean, Hispanic, 
Jewish, multi-ethnic youth, Russian and senior communities. In 
fiscal year 2006, 29 affordable mainstage performances were 
presented and 772 international artists were hosted. 

As the Associate Director of Development of Brooklyn Center, I 
am opposed to the proposed increase of the filing fees for 
nonimmigrant worker petitions. The proposed increase in the Form 
I-129 and Form I-824 filing fees will be financially burdensome 
to my nonprofit performing arts organization. Before the USCIS 
contemplates any price increase, regular processing procedures 
must be improved. 

USCIS should not consider a fee increase without first improving 
regular processing procedures in the following ways: 

Reduce the maximum processing period for O and P petitions to 30 
days. Receipt notices from USCIS often indicate that processing 
periods will range anywhere between 30 and 120 days. This time 
span is simply too ambiguous and lengthy to accommodate booking 
and presenting foreign guest artists for performances with a 
fixed date. To engage foreign guest artists, and more freely 
facilitate international cultural exchange, the nonprofit 
performing arts community must be able to rely upon a 30-day 
maximum processing period. 

Improve the reliability and consistency in adjudication of O and 
P petitions. Current USCIS policies and practices result in 
inefficient processing of O and P visas - causing delay, 
expense, and unwarranted requests for further evidence. USCIS 
must implement uniform policies, procedures, and training for 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
efficient processing of petitions. 

Implement uniform policies to improve the traditional expedite 
service. The USCIS has made traditional expedite processing 
available at no additional fee to petitioners who experience an 
unforeseen emergency. Since implementing the Premium Process 
Service, the USCIS has allowed nonprofit organizations to remain 
eligible for the traditional expedite. However, the standards 
for granting expedited processing requests are unclear. The 
traditional expedite is not helpful unless there are clear, 
uniform policies appropriately followed and administered by 
USCIS. 

I am grateful for the opportunity to comment on this proposed 
fee increase. We oppose the proposed fee increase and urge the 
USCIS to demonstrably improve processing of regular petitions 
before burdening petitioners with any increase in processing 
fees. 

Thank you for your consideration. 

Sincerely, 
Lana Rogachevskaya 
Associate Director of Development 

Brooklyn Center for the Performing Arts 
Brooklyn, NY 11210 

 cc: 
Senator Charles Schumer 
Senator Hillary Clinton