While I applaud USCIS in their efforts to provide faster and better, updated service, I would like comment 
in particular on the additional hardship the I-765 fee increase will impose on international students in the 
U.S.  We have already put up many barriers to international exchange and this is one more instance to make 
international students think twice about selecting the United States as their study destination.  We already 
charge them a SEVIS fee, visa fees (for some nationalities this is an ordeal they must endure at each trip 
home), subject them to fingerprinting and close scrutiny at the Port of Entry, report on them more closely 
than any other group entering the U.S. (although they are only around 3% of the non-immigrants who enter 
each year), and for the most part do not let them work part-time off campus as the UK and Australia now 
allow.  There are many programs of study that require an Optional Practical Training work authorization as 
part of the degree requirements, and some of these are repeated with additional EAD cards to apply for.  
These students are already contributing huge dollar amounts to institutions for their tuition and fees, plus 
millions more to our economy for housing and living expenses, not to mention the families who come to 
visit and bring their tourist dollars with them.  Many students have families sacrificing to provide an 
education for their child, and can’t even afford to travel home for vacations.  The $180 fee has been 
difficult for many students, and such a drastic increase will make that struggle much worse. 

We need to be promoting international exchange in every way we can since it provides us allies in the 
world who take the best of the U.S. back to their home countries and have the opportunity to tell their 
citizens about us as people, not just a government or nation.  I would like to propose that there be a reduced 
I-765 fee for legitimate degree-seeking students, especially those who must obtain an EAD for degree 
completion requirements.   

Sally D. Moorehead 
Assistant Director, International Programs 
The University of Tampa 
401 W. Kennedy Blvd. 
Tampa, FL  33606 
Phone:  (813) 253-3333, X3659 
Fax:  (813) 258-7449