From: Bob & Barbara Campbell [mailto:greyhounddogs@cox.net]  
Sent: Thursday, March 29, 2007 9:45 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: N-600 Fee Increases 

To Whom It May Concern: 

I am writing to inform you about my serious concern and dismay over the 
increase in the N-600 (COC) fee to take place this year.  While I 
certainly understand that any paperwork processed by USCIS or any federal 
agency requires man hours and additional expenses -- this increase is 
exorbitant and will negatively many American families in the process or -- 
and hoping to -- adopt internationally.   

International adoption costs alot of money -- and the waiting and the 
anguish experienced by these parents is immeasurable.  People adopt for a 
variety of reasons -- but, we are fortunate that there 
are Americans who are willing to provide love and freedom for orphan 
children.  Many people insist that all Americans should adopt domestically -- 
but, trust me, few are aware of the prejudices Americans face when trying 
to do so!  While there are thousands of children here in foster care -- state 
social service organizations make it very difficult for people to adopt -- even 
if they try to begin that process.  (My husband and I were told by our state 
Social Worker that it would be very hard to refer a 4-7 year-old boy to our 
family since our only child -- a son, 7 years old -- did very well in school and 
would be a 'hard act to follow'!  We were open to race and minor medical 
needs -- just wanted a 4-7 year-old boy!  Four years after our homestudy 
was complete and our son was 11 years old, we were offered twin, 
infant girls!  We had little, if any, 'say' in that adoption process, declined 
that referral and never heard from Social Services again.  Twenty years 
later, our son and his wife dealt with infertility issues and applied to adopt 
from our state -- a child between 0 - 24 months, either gender.  They were 
told that they had Caucasian children which would go to Caucasian families, 
Black children which would be placed in Black families, Hispanic children 
which would be placed with Hispanic families, and mixed-race children -- 
Caucasian/Black and Caucasian/Hispanic and Black/Hispanic which would be 
placed with the minority race first.  Our son/daughter-in-law being a 
Caucasian/East Indian couple -- were told they would wait years for a 
referral as "that minority" was seldom seen here.  Needless to say, they 
adopted a little boy from India in 2003 -- after only 12 months from 

 
  
  
application -- but after spending more than $20,000.  Sadly, the largest 
expenses not directly for the care/welfare of the child prior to adoption 
were to file forms with USCIS.  Had we not been able to help with those 
expenses, our precious grandson would not be here.  And, now -- those fees 
are going up! 

I certainly understand why people coming to this country and filing for 
citizenship need to pay fees for processed paperwork.  However, when you 
raise the fees for a Certificate of Citizenship almost 100% -- you are 
penalizing American citizens for trying to become parents -- in whatever way 
they choose -- or can!  There certainly could be a different fee for "adopted 
infants of American citizens" if someone would seriously consider these 
extra "hoops" required by parents who choose to adopt rather than leave 
orphan children homeless.  Not all adoptive parents 'have money' -- most 
have loans, extra jobs -- and a fear that they may never have children in 
their home. 

PLEASE reconsider this fee increase!  I was told by one USCIS office that 
the COC is "not" required -- a passport will do!  But, try to go to Social 
Security and get a card for that child in his/her American, adopted name -- 
and they tell you "Can't do it with just a Passport!  You need the COC!"  Of 
course, every Social Security office seems to have its own 'rules' -- please 
make USCIS the federal office that HELPS Americans and their families!  
Please do not increase the COC fee! 

Barbara Campbell