From: mail.relay@mailmanager.net [mailto:mail.relay@mailmanager.net] On Behalf Of Patricia 
R. Hughes 
Sent: Tuesday, March 27, 2007 5:31 PM 
To: OS Comments 
Subject: DHS Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044 

Patricia R. Hughes 
1610 Lombard Street #304 
San Francisco, CA 94123-3052 

March 27, 2007 

OS Comments 

Dear OS Comments: 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
US Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Ave. NW, 3rd floor 
Washington DC 20529. 

RE:  DHS Docket # USCIS-2006-0044 

Proposed rule — Adjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit 
Application and Petition Fee Schedule 

I, Patricia Ruth Hughes, am deeply concerned about the proposed USCIS fee 
increase referenced above. 

I have worked more than 30 years with, and continue to assist the 
Southeast Asian and other refugee and immigrant communities in our 
country.  These newcomers have breathed new life into some of our nearly 
lost family values and creation of community around neighborhoods.  They 
are more committed to "American Values" of hard work, education, family 
sacrifice on one another's behalf than many of our own citizens.  They 
encourage and support their children in education and work skills, while 
sacrificing their own personal desires.   These same qualities on which 
the United States of America were founded. 

I, and those with whom I work, are deeply troubled by the sheer size and 
scope of the fee increase. USCIS plans to increase citizenship fees from 
$400 ($330 application fee plus $70 fingerprinting fee) to $675 ($595 
application fee plus $80 fingerprinting fee), an increase of 69 percent.  
It would also raise fees for 37 other immigration and naturalization 
petitions and applications at an average increase of 66 percent.  
Furthermore, it appears that the increase will take place at once rather 
than being spread out over a period of time. 

It is not enough that immigration services and access to permanent status 
is often a tedious, time consuming endeavor. I have witness people being 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
stalled, turned away, and then after paying for the process many times, 
being accepted using the same application and presenting the same required 
documentation.  If this very expensive process now becomes an outrageous 
60% plus larger cost, it will further the existing low family incomes and 
the subsequent lack of funds for basic services to their children. 

Rapid fee hikes of such magnitude will have a disproportionate and 
detrimental impact on the Asian American community. As the following 
figures reflect, Asian Americans constitute a significant portion of 
USCIS's customer base. 

-39% of people who naturalized in 2005 were born in Asia. 
Five of the top ten countries of birth for new U.S. citizens are Asian 
(Philippines, India, Vietnam, People's Republic of China, and Korea).  
-36% of people who became lawful permanent residents (LPRs) in 2005 were 
born in Asia.  -Five of the top ten countries of birth for new LPRs are 
Asian (India, China, Philippines, Vietnam, and Korea).  -Significant 
numbers of asylees and refugees came from Asian countries such as Laos (16 
percent of refugees admitted in 2005) and China (21 percent of asylum 
granted in 2005). 

I currently assist Southeast Asian community organizations, and services 
to families, in San Jose and Richmond, California. These organizations are 
committed to assuring that families learn how to care for their children, 
that childcare options (other than being watched by an older child) are 
available at costs they can afford and within their own neighborhoods.  
They are also sharing their traditional stories and wealth of cultural 
arts, enlivening and encouraging others of us to value and preserve our 
own ethnic roots.  They teach their members America's traditional values 
of hard work, family and community, and adherence to the tennents our 
country was built on. 

The massive and abrupt fee increase proposed by USCIS will delay or 
prevent Asian Americans from becoming U.S. citizens, reuniting with their 
families, contributing their knowledge and skills to our economy, and 
settling into our society after having escaped persecution. 

-A family of four LPRs who want to apply for U.S. citizenship at the same 
time will now have to have $2,700 at their disposal in order to achieve 
their American dream together. 

-A family of four which has been granted asylum in the U.S. and is 
applying for permanent residence will now need $3,620 in hand in order to 
apply for permanent residence. 

-Furthermore, asylees applying for permanent residence will be ineligible 
to apply for fee waivers, no matter how dire their financial situation may 
be, because USCIS intends to categorically eliminate fee waivers for I-485 
applications for adjustment as a part of the fee increase. 

-The proposal would also prohibit U.S. citizens and LPRs from requesting 
fee waivers on I-130 relative petitions on the grounds that the 
petitioners must file affidavits of support to show that they can support 
their beneficiaries should they be unable to do so themselves.  

The fee hike and the blanket ban on fee waivers on certain applications 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and petitions would be particularly burdensome to the roughly 12 percent 
of the Asian American community which lives below the poverty level. 

Given the speed, scope and scale of the proposed fee increase, we believe 
that USCIS customers must receive faster, greater, and more concrete 
improvements in processing times and customer service. The fee increase 
proposal itself does not appear to set forth any concrete targets for 
improvement in these areas. 

Finally, we believe that certain improvements which the USCIS wants to 
finance through the fee increase would be better addressed through the 
normal budget and appropriations process. For instance, while we support 
USCIS's efforts to improve its fraud detection capacity and to modernize 
its business and technological infrastructure, we do not believe that 
immigrants and their families should bear the sole burden for these 
efforts. 

In conclusion, we urge USCIS to reconsider the proposed fee increase.  We 
hope that the agency will work with immigrant communities, and with 
Congress, to develop a functioning, effective immigration system that will 
benefit our country. 

Sincerely, 

Patricia R. Hughes 
415-292-4798