From: lweisz@bam.org [mailto:lweisz@bam.org]  
Sent: Tuesday, March 27, 2007 5:21 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: DHS No. USCIS-2006-0044 

Director Regulatory Management Division U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, 3rd Floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

Dear Director U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, 

On behalf of the Brooklyn Academy of Music (BAM)and the 
audiences we serve, I submit these comments in response to the 
proposed rule published in 72 Fed. Reg. 4888-4915 (February 1, 
2007) to adjust the immigration and naturalization benefit 
application and petition fee schedule. 

The Brooklyn Academy of Music is a non-profit presenting arts 
organization whose facility is owned and operated by the City of 
New York. Its operations are made possible by a $35 million 
operating budget comprised of public and private funds. 
Established in 1861, BAM has become one of the nation's most 
significant forums for innovation in the arts and a national 
model of an urban arts center. BAM's primary mission is to 
develop and present new work in the performing arts; to 
encourage innovative approaches to the traditional repertory of 
dance, opera, music, and theater; to promote unusual 
collaborations with visual artists; and to reach out to the 
local community through educational activities and multicultural 
experiences that specifically serve the interests of a 
culturally diverse urban population. BAM accomplishes its 
mission through its basic programming initiatives: the Next Wave 
Festival, which presents and produces new work from established 
and emerging artists; BAM Opera and BAM Theater, which offer 
alternative approaches to opera and theater production in the 
United States; and other special international events, including 
Dance Africa America and the International Children?s Festival, 
which presents prestigious international companies rarely seen 
in the United States. 

I am opposed to the proposed increase of the filing fees for 
nonimmigrant worker petitions. The proposed increase in the Form 
I-129 and Form I-824 filing fees will be financially burdensome 
to my nonprofit performing arts organization. Before the USCIS 
contemplates any price increase, regular processing procedures 
must be improved. 

USCIS should not consider a fee increase without first improving 
regular processing procedures in the following ways: 

Reduce the maximum processing period for O and P petitions to 30 
days. Receipt notices from USCIS often indicate that processing 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
periods will range anywhere between 30 and 120 days. This time 
span is simply too ambiguous and lengthy to accommodate booking 
and presenting foreign guest artists for performances with a 
fixed date. To engage foreign guest artists, and more freely 
facilitate international cultural exchange, the nonprofit 
performing arts community must be able to rely upon a 30-day 
maximum processing period. 

Improve the reliability and consistency in adjudication of O and 
P petitions. Current USCIS policies and practices result in 
inefficient processing of O and P visas - causing delay, 
expense, and unwarranted requests for further evidence. USCIS 
must implement uniform policies, procedures, and training for 
efficient processing of petitions. 

Implement uniform policies to improve the traditional expedite 
service. The USCIS has made traditional expedite processing 
available at no additional fee to petitioners who experience an 
unforeseen emergency. Since implementing the Premium Process 
Service, the USCIS has allowed nonprofit organizations to remain 
eligible for the traditional expedite. However, the standards 
for granting expedited processing requests are unclear. The 
traditional expedite is not helpful unless there are clear, 
uniform policies appropriately followed and administered by 
USCIS. 

I am grateful for the opportunity to comment on this proposed 
fee increase. We oppose the proposed fee increase and urge the 
USCIS to demonstrably improve processing of regular petitions 
before burdening petitioners with any increase in processing 
fees. 

Thank you for your consideration. 

Sincerely, 
Mary Reilly 
Director of Artist Services 
BAM 
30 Lafayette Ave 
Brooklyn, NY 11217 

 cc: 
Senator Charles Schumer 
Representative Edolphus Towns 
Senator Hillary Clinton