From: mail.relay@mailmanager.net [mailto:mail.relay@mailmanager.net] On Behalf Of Julia 
Osborne 
Sent: Tuesday, March 27, 2007 3:07 PM 
To: Director, Regulatory Management Division 
Subject: Fee concerns 

Julia Osborne 
6235 S. Pecos Rd., Ste. 102 
Las Vegas, NV 89120-3245 

March 27, 2007 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Ave.  NW, 3d Floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

 Director, Regulatory Management Division: 

I have sent a previous, lengthy message to your offices. Here's a much 
shorter one: as a practitioner who frequently does pro bono cases, and 
offers lengthy payment plans for fees of a few hundred dollars, I cannot 
imagine most of my clients will be able to come up with these new fees 
--especially when a family is involved. Remember, the STRIVE Act is 
already providing for significant fines and fees for those who are 
planning to adjust under it--estimated to be up to 12 million individuals. 
Even if they only paid the $500 fee and nothing more that's an influx of 
an extra $6 billion right there--plus all the extra fees they must pay to 
receive employment authorization, temporary cards, permanent cards, earned 
citizenship, etc. And they can in turn assist family members who will pay 
more money. 

But by effectively building a wall of extraordinary fees, you are telling 
folks "you can get a benefit--if you have enough money." And some will 
simply choose, or be forced to choose, to remain with no status because 
they cannot afford to file. I have one young woman pregnant with her 
second child who can file for naturalization. She does not work, and her 
companion is undocumented and works when he can. She has tried, 
unsuccessfully, for nearly a year to raise your filing fee (I have not 
charged her anything for my time.) A higher fee will mean she will wait 
longer--and can cause a spiraling effect where the father of the children 
(who is only waiting for his companion's naturalization to marry) will 
ultimately be forced to leave the U.S., possibly abandoning his children 
and companion, because of a fee. That's a story the news media would love 
to hear. Must she choose between food for her babies and good medical care 
or a filing fee? 

Please reconsider before raising these fees so extraoridarily high. 

Sincerely, 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Julia Osborne 
7023823824