From: Roger Wight [mailto:rwight@njsymphony.org]  
Sent: Friday, March 30, 2007 12:48 PM 
To: OSComments 
Cc: Roger Wight 
Subject: DHS No. USCIS-2006-0044 New Jersey Symphony Orchestra Comments 

March 30, 2007  

Director 
Regulatory Management Division 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, 3rd Floor 
Washington, D.C. 20529 

Re: DHS No. USCIS-2006-0044 

The New Jersey Symphony Orchestra submits these comments in response to 
the proposed rule published in 72 Fed. Reg. 4888-4915 (February 1, 2007) to 
adjust the immigration and naturalization benefit application and petition fee 
schedule. 

We strongly object to the proposed increase of the filing fees for nonimmigrant 
worker petitions.  The proposed increase in the Form I-129 and Form I-824 filing 
fees will be financially burdensome.  Before U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services (USCIS) contemplates any price increase, regular processing 
procedures must be improved. 

The New Jersey Symphony Orchestra is the premiere presenter of classical 
music performances across the state of New Jersey.   Based at the New Jersey 
Performing Arts Center in Newark, NJ, the NJSO offers a world-class concert 
series each season with Music Director Neeme Järvi, along with pops concerts 
and family performances.  The NJSO is also a leader in arts education, serving 
New Jersey residents by providing a wide range of nationally recognized 
programs for children and adults alike.   

Many of the artists who appear as part of our various concert series come from 
foreign countries.  Delays and unpredictability in visa processing have made it 
increasingly difficult for the New Jersey Symphony and many other orchestras to 
present international artists in the United States.  USCIS should not consider any 
fee increase without first improving regular processing procedures in the 
following ways: 

1.  Reduce the maximum processing period for O and P petitions to 30 days.  
Receipt notices from USCIS often indicate that processing periods for regular 
petitions will range anywhere between 30 and 120 days.  This time span is 
simply too ambiguous and lengthy to accommodate the timely booking and 

 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
presenting of foreign guest artists for performances with a fixed date.  To engage 
foreign guest artists, and more freely facilitate international cultural exchange, 
the nonprofit performing arts community must be able to rely upon a 30-
day maximum processing period. 

2.  Improve the reliability and consistency in adjudication of O and P petitions.  
Current USCIS policies and practices result in inefficient processing of O and P 
visas, causing delay, expense, and unwarranted requests for further evidence.  
USCIS must implement uniform policies, procedures, and training for 
efficient processing of petitions.   

3.  Implement uniform policies to improve the traditional expedite service.  The 
USCIS has made expedited processing available at no additional fee in cases 
where petitioners, through no fault of their own, experience an unforeseen 
emergency, and where failure to expedite the petition will result in serious harm, 
economically or otherwise, to the petitioner.  However, the USCIS standards for 
granting expedited processing requests are unclear.  The traditional expedite is 
not helpful unless there are clear, uniform policies appropriately followed and 
administered by USCIS. 

We are grateful for the opportunity to comment on this proposed fee increase.  
We oppose the proposed fee increase and urge the USCIS to demonstrably 
improve processing of regular petitions. 

Thank you for your consideration. 

With respect, 

The New Jersey Symphony Orchestra 

cc: 

Senator Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ) 
Senator Robert Menendez (D-NJ) 
Representative Robert E. Andrews (D-01) 
Representative Frank A. LoBiondo (R-02) 
RepresentativeJim Saxton (R-03) 
RepresentativeChristopher H. Smith (R-04) 
RepresentativeE. Scott Garrett (R-05) 
Representative Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-06) 
Representative Mike Ferguson (R-07) 
RepresentativeBill Pascrell, Jr. (D-08) 

  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
RepresentativeSteven R. Rothman (D-09) 
RepresentativeDonald M. Payne (D-10) 
RepresentativeRodney P. Frelinghuysen (R-11) 
RepresentativeRush Holt (D-12) 
RepresentativeAlbio Sires (D-13) 

André Gremillet, President and CEO, New Jersey Symphony Orchestra 

Dr. Victor Parsonnet, Chairman of the Board, New Jersey Symphony Orchestra 
Susan Stucker, General Manager, New Jersey Symphony Orchestra 

Roger Wight | Manager of Artists and Programs 
OFFICE: 973.624.3713 ext. 230 | FAX: 973.624.2115 
rwight@njsymphony.org 

New Jersey Symphony Orchestra | www.njsymphony.org 
2006-07 Season - Beethoven's Nine Symphonies