MICIOSO~I Corporation 
One Mlcrasolt Way 
Redmond. WA 98052.6399 

Te1425 882 8080 
Fax425 936 7329 
http://w.mlcrosoft.eam/ 

March 30,2007 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
U.S.  Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
11 1 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, 3rd Floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

Re:  DHS Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044 

RINNo. 1615-AB53 
Comments to USCIS Proposed rulemaking 
(Adjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit Application and 
Petition Fee Schedule) 

Dear Director: 

Microsoft Corporation ("Microsoft"), the world leader in software, services, and solutions that 
help people and businesses realize their full potential, is pleased to submit its comments to the 
proposed rule published in the February 1,2007 Federal Register by United States Citizenship 
and Immigration Services ("USCIS"),  a unit of the Department of Homeland Security ("DHS"). 

Microsoft produces software in over 40 languages and maintains operations in more than 80 
countries.  Our company employs approximately 57,000 individuals worldwide, including about 
36,000 U.S. workers, primarily at its corporate headquarters in Redmond, Washington.  Since its 
founding in 1975, Microsoft has created thousands of jobs. in the United States and American 
workers have filled most of these jobs.  Our success and growth over the years are attributable 
not only to the talents of Microsoft's U.S. workers, but also to the relatively small percentage of 
foreign employees sponsored for employment-based permanent residence.  In the corning fiscal 
year, we will continue our growth, with plans to hire more than 3,500 employees in the United 
States. 

As you will see, the views expressed in this letter are broader than merely the parochial interest 
of a single corporation, and in many instances, offer concerns about particular sections of the 

proposed rule which probably will have little, if any, application to our company.  We 
nonetheless offer our views because Microsoft believes that, in fulfilling its role as a responsible 
corporate citizen, the company is duty-bound to comment on proposed regulatory changes that 
would significantly affect the administration of our nation's  immigration laws and access by 
many to our immigration system. 

At the outset, Microsoft commends DHS for taking steps to assure that the USCIS will meet its 
public responsibilities by engaging in advance planning, and in identifying sources of necessary 
funding.  An essential element of the agency's public duties requires dramatic improvement in 
the processing of immigration applications and petitions and to provide better services to its 
customers.  We agree with the implicit premise that, while USCIS has made progress in certain 
important respects, it remains a very long way from reaching the level of efficiency, and 
professionalism that the nation's  employers and individual users of the immigration system 
expect and deserve.  Microsoft therefore fully supports the premise that, in order to reach the 
level of services envisioned in its name, USCIS needs substantial additional resources. 

Summary of Objections to the Proposed Rule 

Microsoft cannot, however, support this flawed proposed rule.  We have significant concerns 
with several of the rule's key proposals. In our view, the proposed rule: 

1.  Illegally imposes all, rather than merely a fair share, of its general operational and 
development costs on individuals and entities seeking immigration benefits; 

2.  Reflects no statutory or regulatory mandate to secure funding from user fees but instead 
a conscious agency decision to refrain from seeking adequate appropriations from 
Congress for purely governmental functions that protect and benefit the entire nation; 
3.  Fails to withstand any careful cost-benefit analysis or provide any binding commitments 

to improve service; 

- 

4.  Provides no factuallv suuuorted or rational basis for stakeholders to conclude that the 
exorbitant increases proposed will likely result in appreciably improved service levels; 

A. 

5.  Masks the cost of the USCIS'  longstanding and regrettable mismanagement of 

operations, founded on unnecessG and <duly  strict interpretationsof eligibility 
criteria and processes required to confer requested immigration benefits; and 

6.  Reflects almost no consideration of how the agency's exertion of unilateral power by 
increasing fees unconscionably will harm legitimate and deserving stakeholders who 
simply cannot afford to pay the proposed fee increases, or qualify under the vastly 
restricted eligibility standards for fee waivers. 

Introduction 

Among Microsoft's objections to the proposed rule, first and foremost, is our M y
that there is no reason in law, policy or sound management principles to warrant the skyrocketing 
increases in fees.  Nowhere can we find justification to conclude that USCIS must or should 
impose virtually all of its operational and development costs on only one segment of the 
stakeholders in the immigration system, namely, the individuals and entities that submit petitions 

 held belief 

and applications for immigration benefits.  Instead, as is common throughout executive agency 
practice, including the other immigration agencies, USCIS should devise a careful estimate of 
what these costs will be and then submit this estimate to Congress for an appropriation sufficient 
to cover all generalized costs of operations and of its purely governmental functions and 
responsibilities. 

As confirmed in the March 27,2007 testimony of the USCIS Director, Emilio T. Gonzalez, to 
the House Appropriations Committee, Subcommittee on Homeland Security, the agency's FY 
2008 budget of $2.57 billion is 99% fee funded, with only $30 million derived from 
appropriations. This allocation is nothing more than a preferred choice by the Executive Branch, 
which has not asked Congress for an appropriation for these purposes.  History reveals a long 
and decisive record establishing that USCIS cannot properly fund its performance by passing on 
costs to customers, no matter how fiequent or steep its fee increases.  The Administration should 
instead make a budget request to Congress. 

. . 

" 

Second. there is strong reason to believe that the astronomical increases that have been arooosed 
will not yield corresponding, or even adequate, improvements for the benefit of customers.  DHS 
and the former Immimation and Naturalization Service ("INS")  have raised application fees 
repeatedly and significantly over the past ten years.  unfortunately, stakeholdk;~ have not 
enjoyed a proportionate improvement in technology, customer service, and overall system 
effectiveness. Nowhere in the ruie does USCIS pledge to payors any binding commitment that 
these dramatic fee increases will lead to better results.  Many of the significant new investments 
that this rule proposes to pay with the increased fee levels do not appear to be directly tied to 
providing improved services to the customers of DHS.  Instead, many of the functions that 
USCIS is proposing to fund -- particularly those targeted for additional security and anti-fraud 
personnel -- are properly placed in other (enforcement) components of DHS.  These components 
have appropriation-based funding, as they should, to accomplish these very functions. 

Compounding this problem, although the details are not clear from the proposed rule, is the 
disproportionate allocation of the fee increase earmarked to pay for ill-conceived background 
and security check processes that USCIS (out of synch with the other DHS agencies with 
immigration responsibilities) has imposed on its petition and application processes.  To be sure, 
Microsoft fully supports the principle that our immigration system must protect national security. 
Yet today's USCIS security-clearance policies are creating massive, unmanaged backlogs in 
entirely legitimate situations. 

Little in the proposed rule suggests any refined and critical analysis of which background checks 
should be performed; which petitions and applications should be subjected to clearance; what 
policies are in place for addressing "hits";  and what personnel and other resources are 
appropriaiely devoted to carrying out these policies and procedures.  It is indefensible that 
USCIS would impose the costs of these ill-advised and minimally helpful processes and policies 
on the users of the immigration system - as well as the skyrocketing costs of litigating the 
exponentially rising number of challenges, and the attorney-fee awards when judges quite 
commonly and rightly agree that the background-check policies are unsustainable in individual 
cases. Clearly, the imposition on the agency's individual stakeholders of unwarranted and 

excessive clearance costs does nothing but reward the agency for its own mismanagement and 
deficient policies. 

Microsoft also believes that the magnitude of the fee increases proposed will have a negative 
impact on our immigration system, economy, and society.  Should these proposed fee increases 
go into effect, many legally eligible individuals and their families will be unable to afford the 
costs of applying for immigration benefits, including citizenship.  While we understand that 
additional funding fiom an appropriate source to provide immigration services is necessary, there 
is no evidence in the proposed rule that the agency has analyzed in any meaningful way the 
harms that will result fiom imposing all of the additional burden on individual immigrants and 
petitioners. 

Microsoft therefore urges DHS and the Administration to consider more carefully the wisdom of 
raising a significant portion of the necessary additional resources through appropriations.  The 
ability of immigrants to obtain lawful immigration status and become more fully integrated into 
our society is something that clearly benefits the country overall, well beyond the benefits that 
accrue to individual applicants and beneficiaries.  This is true where the aspiring immigrant is a 
Ph.D. whose work promises to bring massive intellectual resources to our knowledge-based 
economy, and it is also true where the aspiring immigrant is the hard-working, law-abiding and 
tax-paying relative of a U.S.  citizen. 

Finally, the adverse impact of the fee increases will be exacerbated by the agency's  additional 
proposal strictly limiting the possibility of obtaining fee waivers to a few particular application 
types.  Under the proposed rule, many widely-used immigration applications would no longer be 
eligible for consideration for a fee waiver.  The agency's justification for this particular proposal 
is fundamentally flawed and we urge DHS to abandon this proposal given the potential for 
serious harm it may cause for those individuals who will be unable to apply for immigration 
benefits without such a waiver. 

Microsoft supports the need of USCIS for additional funding adequate to bring it up to an 
acceptable level of performance.  This funding, though, or a major proportion of it, must come as 
an appropriation fiom Congress.  The inordinate increases proposed in the proposed rule are not 
an appropriate way to meet this need.  Microsoft's  objections are spelled out in more detail in the 
pages that follow. 

I. 

Because the Proposed Fee Increases Imposed on Users Are Wholly Disproportionate 
to the Benefits Conferred, DHS Should Seek Appropriations for All  or a Major 
Portion of Required Additional Funding. 

Microsoft is extremely concerned with the magnitude of the fee increases that USCIS has 
proposed.  The magnitude of the proposed fee increases is truly breathtaking.  On average DHS 
is proposing almost a doubling of fees beyond amounts that were last increased less than two 
years ago.  More particularly, it would raise fees overall by approximately 86% above the levels 
that were set by the most recent increase.  Several widely used application forms, such as the I- 

485 application to adjust status, will see far greater increases, many approximately tripling.  DHS 
is proposing to increase the fee for the 1-485 application form by 178%, .From $325 to $905. 

There is not the slightest legal reauirement that USCIS obtain all of its funding through 
application fees.  While Mf&osok fully supports the agency's  need for additional funding to 
modernize its systems and improve customer service, we urge DHS and the Administration to 
reconsider this proposed rulemaking and instead seek appropriations for the additional funds that 
the agency requires.  Appropriated funds would allow USCIS to l i t  the increase in application 
fees and could alleviate many of the burdens that the current proposal, if finalized, would 
impose.  A better balance between appropriated and fee-based funding would also help the 
agency by providing it with a more reliable revenue stream and greater flexibility to respond to 
variations in application flows. 

Appropriations are fully justified because immigration and the efficient processing of 
immigration benefits provide many economic benefits and otherwise contribute to the betterment 
of our nation. The level of application fees proposed in the proposed rule will negate a number of 
those benefits, even ignoring the substantial burdens imposed on individual applicants.  DHS 
should have conducted a thorough analysis of the costs and benefits of the suggested fee 
increases.  Microsoft is confident that once such an analysis is performed, the Administration 
will determine that there are far better alternatives, fiom a cost-benefit standpoint, to funding 
USCIS solely through application fees. 

A. 

USCIS and Its Customers Would Benefit From a More Balanced Mix of Fee- 
Generated and Appropriated Funding. 

d 

We understand that a significant portion of the agency's costs have historically been provided 
through application fees.  However, USCIS (as well as the former INS) has historically received 
significant appropriations to support application processing as well.  Section 286(m) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C.  ยง  1356(m), states that fees "for providing 
. 
adiudication and naturalization services ma, be set at a level that will ensure recoverv of the full 
costs of providing such services" (emphasis added).  The statutory language clearly provides 
DHS and the Administration with the necessary flexibility to consider alternative funding, 
including the overwhelmingly most common i d  proper:  additional appropriations .From 
Congress.  USCIS has received substantial appropriations .From Congress over the past several 
years that were specifically targeted at reducing application processing backlogs and improving 
customer service.  For example, in FY 2005, Congress appropriated approximately $160 million 
toward the elimination of the immigration backlog.  Department of HomeIandSecurity Act of 
2005, H.R. 4567, 108th Cong. (2004).  Likewise, in the six years preceding 2003, Congress 
appropriated some $430M specifically to address the backlog of immigration applications.  H.R. 
Rep. No.  108-010 (2003).  Unfortunately, this money was only appropriated for specific projects. 
Because of the agency's unstable fee-based structure, much of this money went to covering 
budgetary shortfalls, rather than permanent investments in customer service improvements, and 
the purpose of the appropriation was thwarted.  There is every likelihood that, if the 
Administration does not adopt a long-term strategy to appropriate funds for managing USCIS 

performance, the pattern of "catch-up"  funding for USCIS principally through fees will produce 
continued USCIS underperformance. 

Funding USCIS operations only or primarily through user fees adversely impacts its performance 
in a number of significant ways.  According to one internal DHS report, under current funding 
structures, "USCIS is unable to maximize efficiency and make USCIS a true world-class 
customer service provider."1  USCIS regularly faces budget uncertainty because, as an 
overwhelmingly fee-funded agency, its fundimg stream is entirely dependent on the number of 
applications filed.  Additionally, while most of its revenues are variable, the vast majority of the 
costs those fees must cover are fixed.  This can create sipnificant budgetaw oroblems for the 
agency should the number of applications filed vary si-~ficantly from its projections in either 
direction.  Should the number of applications filed fall below the agency's projections, then it 
DHS has covered 
will need to make up the b ~ d ~ e t e s h o r t f a l l  by other means.  In recent 
these shortfalls by relying on fees from temporary programs, curtailing necessary spending, and 
by allocating premium processing fees that, by law, were to be used for investments in 
infrastructure improvements to adjudications processes, to cover operating costs.2 

-  - *  

- 

The Administration's decision to fund USCIS solely through user fees has exacerbated the 
budgetary uncertainties the agency has faced in recent years.  It has significantly restricted 
USCIS'  ability to plan for, develop, fund, and implement customer service improvements such as 
modernized IT systems, because USCIS has had to struggle to pay its operating costs.3 A base of 
annually appropriated funding in support of the filing fees that the agency collects would provide 
additional stability to the agency's budget and markedly improve its ability to make long-term 
investments in technology and personnel to improve its performance. 

Microsoft urges DHS and the Administration to reassess the decision to h d  USCIS solely 
through immigration application fees.  Instead it should consider seeking a balance of 

See U.S. Department of Homeland Security, Citizenship and Immigration Services 

Ombudsman, 2006 Annual Report to Congress, (June 29,2006) p. iv. 
See 72 Fed. Reg. 4892.  The preamble to the PROPOSED RULE makes clear that the budget 
uncertainties the agency has faced due to shortfalls in fee-generated revenues are the direct cause 
for the agency's inability to improve its information technology systems: "investment in new 
technology and business process platforms to radically improve USCIS'  capabilities and service 
levels." 
See  US. Citizenship and Immigration Services' Progress in Modernizing Information 
Technology, Office of Inspector General, Department of Homeland Security, p. 6 (Nov. 30, 
2006), ("USCIS'  unique funding structure poses major obstacles to transformation planning"); 
Annual Report 2006, Citizenship and Immigration Services Ombudsman, Department of 
~omeland~ecurity p. 26 (.Tune-29,2006)('?he  manner in which USCIS currently obtains its 
fundmg affects every facet of USCIS operations, including the ability to: (1) implement new 
program and processing initiatives; (2) begin information technology and other modernization 
efforts; and (3) plan for the future"). 

- 

A 

" 

. . 

appropriated and fee-generated funds.  This would ensure a more stable base of funding for the 
agency that is less tied to changes in the numbers of applications filed, providing it with greater 
budgetary certainty and the ability to plan and make long-term investment decisions to improve 
~erformance and to adaot to sudden changes in avvlication flows.  There are a number of 
alternatives for allocating additional appropriated funds.  The processing costs for a range of 
benefits, such as asylum applications and naturalizations for those in military service, are 
currently supported by the-revenues fiom fee-paying applicants.  These processes and services 
could instead be paid for with appropriate funds.  Appropriations could also be made to cover the 
agency's  overhead costs.  Security-based background check policies should be paid for through 
appropriations. Alternatively, while application fees would support the costs of processing and 
overhead, appropriated funds could be allocated for infrastructure investments and technology 
improvements.  This is clearly the trend of thinking in Congress.  Before this comment period 
even ended, a bill was introduced in the Senate to address the need for USCIS to seek 
appropriations for certain costs associated with adjudication and naturalization services.  That 
bill would state the Sense of Congress that - 

(1) the Secretary of Homeland Security should set fees 
under Section 286(m)(3) . . . at a level that ensures 
recovery only of the direct costs associated with the 
services described in such section 286(m)(3); and 

(2) Congress should appropriate to the Secretary of 
Homeland Security such funds as may be necessary to 
cover the indirect costs associated with the services 
described in such section 286(m)(3). 

The Citizenship Promotion Act of 2007, S. 795,llOth Cong. 9 2(b) (emphasis added).  This 
approach recognizes what USCIS has regrettably read out of its statutory authority:  there are 
some expenses associated with the agency's  adjudication and naturalization services that we - as 
the public - should all bear. Regardless of the particular alternative chosen, the agency's 
operations would be improved by increasing the stability of its budget. 

In spite of the large fee increases in this proposed rule, there is absolutely no reason for DHS to 
be confident that USCIS will not suffer similar funding shortfalls once again in the near future. 
The agency's variable fee revenues do not match well with its large fixed costs.  The costs of 
processing immigration benefit applications have increased dramatically in recent years, 
particularly due to the enhanced security procedures that have been put into place.  The process 
for raising fees can be protracted, including fee studies, cost analysis, regulatory development 
and internal review, and public comments.  In part based upon past history, there is the clearest 
likelihood that DHS (if it continues to rely on fees only) will not be able regularly to complete 
fee studies and adjust fee levels in sufficient time to avoid future funding problems.  Prior to the 
fee study that was completed to support the proposed rule, the last comprehensive fee study that 
the agency completed was almost ten years ago.  The use of appropriated funds, in addition to 
fees, would help minimize the disruptions to adjudications and application processing that might 
occur due to delays in making fee changes in the future. 

B. 

Immigration and an Efficient Adjudication System Provide Important Benefits to 
the General Public Beyond the Specific Benefits that Individual Applicants 
Receive. 

It is entirely appropriate for the Administration to seek appropriations to cover a potion of the 
costs of processing immigration applications.  Legal immigration and an efficient immigration 
system are public goods that benefit our economy and society in ways that are greater than the 
individual benefits that applicants and petitioners receive.  Immigrants and visitors to our country 
bring their talent and hard work to our economy and enrich our community life.  Our economy 
benefits because employers can obtain necessary foreign national employees and expand their 
businesses.  An efficient immigration system also increases our national security and provides 
important humanitarian benefits to individuals and families.  Microsoft in particular generates 
huge economic and social benefits in significant part because of the innovation and job growth 
that it generates. 

The reasons for properly funding the responsible delivery of immigration services are powerful. 
When Microsoft files a petition or application, its adjudication is typically of importance not just 
to Microsoft, but to the innovation and job creation goals of the whole county.  Delays interrupt 
those goals.  Prompt and efficient processing of immigration applications and petitions and 
access to our legal immigration system also can improve our national and border security. 
Access to fast and efficient immigration adjudication services can provide increased incentives to 
come to the United States through legal chan~els.~ Where individuals can afford to pay the 
application fees and can be assured of receiving a prompt decision on their application, they will 
be far less likely to try to enter the U.S. by improper means.  This will help to reduce the 
workload on our border security and interior enforcement agencies and allow them to better 
focus their resources on true criminal and security threats. 

Effective immigration adjudication processes can also serve promptly to screen applicants for 
criminal or national security concerns and help to prevent individuals who pose a threat fiom 
entering or remaining here.  Appropriations would allow significant improvements to be made to 
these procedures over the agency's  current abilities.  More efficient screening for security would 
allowthe Government to identify and take action against those individuals who pose true 
securitv concerns, so that thev are unable to remain at large while their applications are 
considered, and i;  would also-allow the agency to determ&e more quickl;^when  individuals do 
not actually pose any risk, allowing their applications to be processed normally.  The screening 
processes now in place appear to delay a massive number of cases without offering any 
articulable basis for believing that our security has been strengthened. 

Our economy and society also benefit fiom immigration and an efficient immigration system. 
Jinmigrant entrepreneurs create jobs and increase tax payments.  High-skilled workers and 

See  Carafano, J.J. & Mayer, M., Better, Faster, Cheaper Border Security Requires Better 

Immigration Services, (Washington, DC, Heritage Foundation, Feb. 28,2007), p. 2. 

- 8 -  

foreign-born students and researchers have led innovation in key sectors of our economy. 
Immigrant workers produce, and consume goods and services, creating jobs that would otherwise 
not have existed.  Immigration also serves important humanitarian purposes, such as unifying 
families.  The proposed application fees, by raising hiring costs and limiting many individuals' 
access to the immigration system will, in part, negate these important general benefits.  Thus it is 
in the country's  interest to limit the application fee increases by appropriating funds to support 
USCIS'  operations. 

C. 

By Exceeding the Scope of its Authority under the Homeland Security Act, the 
USCIS Impermissibly Includes Costs in the Calculation Underlying the Proposed 
Fee Increases That Must Be Borne Exclusively by the DHS Immigration 
Enforcement Agencies. 

Microsoft believes that the proposed rule reflects a fundamental mistake in the imposition on 
petitioners and applicants seeking immigration benefits of liability for the costs of enforcement 
of the immigration laws, particularly the huge amount of enforcement costs earmarked for the 
Fraud Detection and National Security ("FDNS")  Division.  The error turns on the inclusion by 
USCIS in the proposed fee increases of the costs of law enforcement activities, costs which are 
only allocable to federal agencies expressly authorized to enforce the immigration statutes and 
regulations. 

OMB Circular A-25 prescribes permissible allocations by federal administrative agencies of 
"User Charges"  (accessible at h~://www.whitehouse.~ov/omb/circular~/aO25/aO25.html). 
relevant pa*,  OMB Circular A-25, at 7 6 a.,  provides: 

In 

When a service (or privilege) provides special benefits to an identifiable 
recipient beyond those that accrue to the general public, a charge will be 
imposed (to recover the full cost to the Federal Govemment for providing 
the special benefit, or the market price). 

As an example, 7 6 a. lists a "passport  [or] visa"  among the services for which a recipient derives 
a "special benefit."  Clearly, then, immigration benefits accruing to petitioners and applicants are 
properly classified as "special benefits."  The inquiry then turns to the definition of the "full 
cost" to the Federal Govemment to provide such special benefits.  OMB Circular A-25,  at 7 6 d., 
provides the definition of "full cost" as follows: 

"Full cost" includes all direct and indirect costs to any part of the Federal 
Government of providing a good, resource, or service. These costs 
include, but are not limited to, an appropriate sltare o f . .  . tlre costs of 
enforcement, collection, research, establishment of standards, and 
regulation, including any required environmental impact statements. 

(Emphasis added.)  Under the Homeland Security Act of 2002 ("HSA"),  P.L.  107-296, Congress 
determined to transfer the authority of the Immigration and Naturalization Service from the 
Department of Justice to DHS and to divide the powers and functions of legacy INS so 

- 9 -  

transferred between the Director of USCIS and the Under Secretary for Border and 
Transportation Security ("BTS")  which includes Immigration and Customs Enforcement ("ICE") 
and Customs and Border Protection ("CBP")  as follows: 

DHS Official 

Director of USCIS 

Under-secretary  of BTS' 

DHS Agency 

USCIS 

BTS 
(ICE & CBP) 

Operative Statutory 
Provision 

Scope of the 
Transfer 

HSA 5 451 

HSA 5 441 

"[A]U  functions performed 
under the following 
programs, 
and all personnel, assets, and 
liabilities pertaining to such 
programs, immediately 
before such transfer occurs: 

(1) The Border Patrol 
program. 
(2) The detention and 
removal program. 
(3) The intelligence program. 
(4) The investigations 
program. 
(5) The inspections program. 

"[Tlhe following functions, 
and all personnel, 
infrastructure, 
and funding provided to 
the Commissioner in 
support of such functions 
immediately before the 
effective date [of the HAS:] 

(1) Adjudications of 
immigrant visa petitions. 
(2) Adjudications of 
naturalization petitions. 
(3) Adjudications of asylum 
and refugee applications. 
(4) Adjudications 
performed at service 
centers. 
(5) All other adjudications 
performed by the 
Immigration 
and Naturalization Service 

This chart reflects the DHS structure set out initially in the HSA.  Though the office of 

Undersecretary of BTS technically no longer exists, that fact does not diminish the distinctions 
between HSA $5 451 and 441 nor the arguments made herein. 

In light of the clear division of statutory authority noted above, Microsoft believes that the cost 
of enforcement should not be included in the USCIS calculation of proposed fee increases.  We 
note in the preface to the proposed rule (72 Fed. Reg. at 4899) that ICE has established a 
"threshold" involving "large conspiracies" and "multi-party" fkauds before suspected law 
violations are "accepted for criminal investigation" and that, as. a result, USCIS believes that it 
must instead use its FDNS division for fkauds of lesser magnitude.  However, as ICE is the 
agency with the prime role in investigating fiaud and ensuring integrity in the system, the fact 
that it has chosen not to request appropriations for these activities, while USCIS is seeking to 
fund them on a massive scale, raises questions about the level of strategic coordination between 
the two agencies, and about the utility and necessity of the particular enforcement measures that 
USCIS has put into place. 

While this division of enforcement responsibilities is a DHS policy choice involving an exercise 
of power that appears to exceed the grant of authority in HSA 5 451, we believe that the 
imposition of such ultra-vires costs on petitioners and applicants is wholly unwarranted.  As 
noted, under OM3 Circular A-25, at fi 7 6 a. and d., only an "appropriate share" of the "cost  of 
enforcement" may be imposed for the special benefit of a user of government services.  That ICE 
has apparently chosen a policy to decline investigation of criminal immigration fkauds below a 
certain threshold does not justify the imposition of the cost of enforcement on users of USCIS 
adjudicative services. 

Equally improper is the imposition of the costs of USCIS'  extralegal immigration-enforcement 
activities on applicants and petitioners requesting immigration benefits. The legality of decisions 
by USCIS through the FDNS division to engage in immigration-enforcement activities beyond 
the purview of its solely adjudicative authority under HSA ยง 451 can be left for another day and 
decided in a different forum.  Insofar as the proposed rule is concerned, however, Microsoft 
firmly believes that persons and entities requesting immigration benefits should not be required 
to pay for activities benefiting the general public "involving detection, combat, and deterrence of 
immigration and naturalization benefit fraud."  72 Fed. Reg. at 4897. 

D. 

DHS Has Not Conducted a Sufficient Analysis of the Costs, Benefits and 
Foreseeable Consequences of Imposing the Costly Fees Proposed. 

It does not appear that DHS has performed appropriately the required analysis of the costs and 
benefits of issuing this regulation.  Nor does it appear that DHS has considered the potential 
costs and benefits of pursuing possible alternative fundiig sources.  This is unacceptable, given 
the impact of the additional costs that the proposed rule would impose.  Under Executive Order 
12866, a regulatory action is considered economically significant if it will have an annual effect 
on the economy of $100 million or more.  DHS has appropriately labeled the proposed rule as 
economically significant, because it will impose over $500 million-  under DHS's  analysis - in 
annual additional costs for immigration applicants.6 Under Executive Order 12866 and Office of 

The section of the preamble discussing Executive Order 12866 can be found at 72 Fed. Reg. 

4913 (Feb. 1,2007). 

Management and Budget Circular A-4, federal agencies are required to perform a rigorous 
regulatory analysis, particularly where a regulation is deemed economically significant, of the 
costs and benefits of any proposed rulemaking. 

The Executive Order provides that federal agencies, when deciding whether and how to regulate, 
are required to "assess all costs and benefits of available regulatory alternatives, including the 
altemative of not regulating.  Costs and benefits shall be understood to include both quantifiable 
measures (to the fullest extent that these can be usefully estimated) and qualitative measures of 
costs and benefits that are difficult to quantify, but nevertheless essential to consider."  58 Fed. 
Reg. 51735 (October 4,1993).~ In choosing among alternative regulatory approaches, "agencies 
should select those approaches that maximize net benefits (including potential economic, 
environmental, public health and safety, and other advantages; distributive impacts; and equity), 
unless a statute requires another regulatory approach."  Id.  Such an analysis is required both to 
help agencies in their decision making processes and also to provide the public with information 
regarding the effects of alternative actions. 

These requirements do not at all appear to have been met in the development of the proposed 
rule.  Neither the preamble nor any information in the docket for this rulemaking contains any 
costtbenefit analysis of the rule's proposals.  The preamble states the agency's need for 
additional funding and argues that customer service will suffer if the proposed fee increases (and 
the investments that would be funded with those fees) do not become effective.  However, it does 
not contain an analysis of the costs and benefits should this rule go into effect, or of the costs and 
benefits of raising the application fees to the levels proposed.  Nor is there apparently even the 
slightest consideration of the costs and benefits of pursuing altemative approaches, such as 
seeking more limited fee increases that are supplemented by appropriated funds. 

DHS should not go forward with this rulemaking until it has considered more carefully the 
burdens and benefits that its proposal will create and has provided the public a reasonable 
opportunity to review and comment on its analysis.  The decision to fund USCIS's  operations 
solely through application fees, and the increases in the fee levels that DHS has proposed, will 
have significant adverse costs for both individual applicants and the general public.  USCIS will 
remain tied to the variable funding that has failed so clearly in the past, and the accompanying 
budgetary shortfalls that have hindered its ability to modernize itself in past years will continue. 

11. 

The Proposed RuIe Fails to Demonstrate that the Fee Increases WiU Result in 
Improved Customer Service. 

Microsoft strongly supports the agency's goals of enhancing security, improving its technology 
systems, and increasing customer service.  However, this proposed rule provides entirely 
&adequate assurance to the public that the rate increases Glilead to appropriate impro;ement  in 
customer service for the agency's customers.  USCIS (and the former INS) has increased filing 

Executive Order 12866 was recently amended.  The amendments, which did not affect the 
quoted passages, were published on January 23,2007.  See 72 Fed. Reg. 2763 (Jan. 23,2007). 

fees regularly over the past decade.  The increases have been substantial, particularly in recent 
years.  For example, in 1998 the cost to file an 1-130 relative petition was $1 10. That increased 
to $130 in 2002, increased again in 2004 to $185, and was increased in 2005 to $190.  DHS is 
now proposing to increase the fee to $355.  The N-400 application for naturalization has 
increased in cost fiom $225 in 1998 to $330 in 2005, and it would rise again just two years later 
to $595 under the current proposal.  The cost of filing an 1-485 application to adjust status would 
make one of the largest jumps under the proposed rule.  The new fee would now be $905, an 
increase of $580 fiom the current cost of $325.  In 1998 the fee for Ning this application was 
$220.  Fees for virtually all other application forms will see similar increases under the proposed 
rule. 

In spite of the fee increases enacted over the past decade, the agency is still plagued with 
outdated technology and information systems and still provides inadequate customer service in 
many areas.  Backlogs and prolonged processing times for many benefits continue, particularly 
with regard to employment-based green card applications.  The agency's  security check 
procedures, particularly FBI name checks, are run inefficiently and continue to result in very 
serious adjudication delays in a substantial number of cases.8 The agency has failed to 
modernize its IT systems and continues to rely on paper-based files and adjudication processes 
rather than current technologies?  The continued reliance on outdated, paper-based processes 
results in inefficient use of the agency's human and financial resources and results in higher 
processing costs. 

According to the proposed rule, DHS will use the additional revenue to cover its current 
budgetary shortfalls and make a number of additional investments at a cost of over $524 million 
per year.  These will allow the agency to reduce processing times by 20%, according to the 
agency's estimates, by the endof FY 2009.  There is no business analysis or any other basis to 
conclude that the additional investments that DHS has detailed in the proposed rule will allow 
the agency to accomplish this goal.  This stems fiom the instability of fee-based funding, as 
demonstrated by the agency's past inability to make improvements in spite of substantial fee 
increases. 

Out of the $524 million DHS is proposing to spend, $123.8 million would go to additional 
adjudications and support staff.  The agency is also planning to spend an additional $124.3 
million on information technology.  However, much of this additional IT spending appears to be 
for maintenance of the agency's  outdated legacy systems, rather than the development of 
modernized systems.  Most of the remaining investments will have, at best, a limited or indirect 
impact on improving benefits processing and services for the agency's  customers.  Over $1 13 
million in additional funds is targeted for overhead (iincludin~$ facility costs, new training 
programs, transferring records tithe ~ational hch.;ves, etc.);  limiteh pro&ams  such as the 

Annual Report 2006, Citizenship and Immigration Services Ombudsman, Department of 
Homeland Security, p. iii (June 29,2006). 

Id. at 29-32. 

Cuban Haitian Entrant Program, and such other support costs as additional attorneys and policy 
personnel.  Another $152 million of the additional fee revenue will be spent on security 
enhancements, including additional money for FBI security checks, additional fiaud 
investigators, and increased physical security and internal audits.  While Microsoft fully sopports 
and endorses the need for effective procedures to ensure our nation's security, no case at all is 
made whv these securitv-related funds will result in service imurovements.  We believe that a 
number of these security-related investments might be more appropriately made by other 
agencies that are statutorily charged with immigration enforcement and are funded through 
a&opriitions  rather thanby U ~ I S ,  which is charged by statute with providing immigration 
services. 

. 

A 

While the proposed rule provides some detail regarding the additional $524 million in 
investments that DHS is proposing to fund with increased fee revenues, it does not adequately 
indicate how these investments, when taken as a whole, will allow the agency to accomplish its 
goals.  It also fails to provide any details regarding alternative investments that the agency may 
have considered. In addition, many of the investments the agency is proposing to make are not 
sufficiently tied to improvements in the agency's adjudication processes.  As a result, there is 
little reason for the public to believe that the dramatic fee increases in the DHS proposal will 
result in matching improvements in service. 

JII.  The Proposed Fee Increases Will Eliminate Access to Our Immigration System for 
Many Eligible Immigrant Families and Limit Their Integration into Our Society. 

The proposed fees, once effective, will simply be unaffordable for many deserving immigrants 
and their families.  Significant numbers of eligible immigrants and petitioners will be unable to 
access the immigration system and obtain the legal status or benefits to which they may be 
entitled.  This will not only cause significant hardships for affected individuals and their 
families; ultimately, it will harm our immigration system and our society overall. 

We believe many deserving immigrants are going to find it extremely difficult, if not impossible, 
to afford these fees.  The following example will illustrate this point.  Currently, a family of four 
with an income of 125%"  over the poverty line (as assessed by the Department of Health and 
Human services)"  would make approximately $25,813 per year, or approximately $2,151 per 

lo An income level of 125% above the current HHS poverty guidelines was chosen because this 
is the income level required for filing an affidavit of support in connection with sponsoring a 
family member to immigrate to the United States.  This is necessary in order to demonstrate that 
the sponsored family member will not be inadmissible as apublic charge under section 212(a)(4) 
of the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C.  5  1182(a)(4). An individual or household 
whose earnings are at or above this 125% level is legally eligible to sponsor family members as 
immigrants. 

l1 The poverty level guidelines for 2007 were published in the Federal Register on January 24, 
2007.  See 72 Fed. Reg. 3147. 

month, before taxes.  If such a family lived in a two-bedroom apartment in the Washington D.C. 
area, they would be faced with an average fair market rent as determined by the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development of $1,225 per month.  After factoring in taxes and other 
necessary expenses such as food, transportation, and utilities, such a family would have little or 
no additional h d s  to pay these proposed application fees. 

Once the proposed fees are in effect, if the head of this household wished to file the necessary 
applications to adjust the status of his or her spouse and two children, and if the two children 
were both over fourteen years old, he or she would be required to pay $4,020,''  even before 
paying the additional expense to obtain the necessary medical examinations or paying for any 
legal help in completing and filing the applications.  Once these additional expenses are taken 
into account, the family will be required to pay approximately one-fifth of its gross annual 
income to file these applications.  The proposed fees will simply be unaffordable for many 
families in this situation.  Many households will face the unfortunate position of deciding 
whether or not to file for immigration benefits for some or all members of the family.  As a 
result, many eligible individuals and families will be unable to obtain lawful permanent 
residence, and in some cases this may mean that they are unable to legalize their status. 

Many eligible families will also be precluded from obtaining the important benefits of 
citizenship should this rule become effective.  Under the proposed rule, the fee for filing 
naturalization applications will also be sharply increased.  For example, should the hypothetical 
family of four wish to apply for naturalization, they would need to pay an additional sum of 
$2,700, or over ten percent of the family's  gross annual income, simply to cover the costs of 
filing the applications and to pay for the necessary biometric checks.13  The family might also 
have to pay significant costs for language and U.S.  history classes in preparation for the 
naturalization process.  Regardless of the particular benefit being sought, the fee increases that 
DHS is proposing in this rule will unquestionably l i t  access our immigration system.  Our 
hypothetical example, a family of four earning 125% above the poverty guidelines, is quite a 
common one.  Approximately one-half of the millions of immigrants who are eligible for 
naturalization have incomes under 200% of the poverty guidelines.'4  There is no reason to 
believe that the income statistics for individuals in the United States applying for other benefits 
are any different.  Many individuals and families at these income levels will not have the money 
available to pay the filing costs to apply for immigration benefits, and millions of current lawful 
permanent residents may be unable to seek citizenship, simply because it will become 
unaffordable. 

" This cost would include the cost of three 1-45 applications at $905 each, three 1-130 petitions 
at $355 each, and three separate biometric fees at $80 each. 

l3 The $2,700 cost would consist of four N-400 applications at $595 each and four biometric fees 
at $80 each. 

l4 Fix, Passel, & Sucher, Trends in Naturalization, (Washington, DC: Urban Institute, ~ e ~ t e m b e r  
2003); Immigration Fee Increases In Context, (Washington, DC; Migration Policy Institute, Feb. 
2007) p.1. 

- 

Families and individuals in this situation will encounter significant additional burdens. 
Individuals who are unable to pay the cost of inflated filing fees may fall out of legal 
- 
immimation status and mav lose their legal authorization to work in the United States.  This also 
can be expected to adversely impact employers, who stand to lose valuable employees.  Aliens 
who are unable to legalize their status or obtain employment authorization are also more 
susceptible to exploitation by unscrupulous employers. 

Immigrants who cannot afford to pay the application fees to apply for naturalization will be 
unable to enjoy the important benefits of citizenship, including the right to vote and hold office, 
the ability to sponsor family members for immigration, the ability to travel freely on a U.S. 
passport, and the increased access to employment and educational scholarships. 

Our economy and society will also suffer.  A significant percentage of the large number of 
individuals with low incomes (200% or less of the poverty guidelines level) who are eligible for 
naturalization will be discouraged from applying because of the high application fees." 
Obtaining immigration benefits, particularly permanent benefits such as naturalization and 
adjustment of status, are important steps in the integration of recent immigrants into our overall 
society. 

Increased naturalization and integration bring significant benefits to the counby.  Citizenship 
may make foreign nationals more dedicated to democratic principles, better informed about the 
Constitution, and more fully engaged in civic life.  Naturalization is an important a m a t i o n  of 
commitment to the country and its principles.  In order to naturalize, immigrants must learn a 
basic level of English and study our history.16 The AdministTation has already recognized the 
value to our society of increased naturalization and integration.  Promoting assimilation and 
integration into our society is one of the five fundamental tenets of the President's plan for 
comprehensive immigration reform.17  The fee levels that DHS is proposing will discourage 
many individuals from applying for naturalization and will be counterproductive to achieving the 
Administration's integration goals. 

N.  DHS Should Not Limit the Possibility of Obtaining Fee Waivers in Individual Cases 

At the Same Time the Agency Is Proposing to Increase Application Fees in Such a 
Dramatic Fashion. 

It seem highly inappropriate that DHS is proposing to restrict signiiicantly the availability of fee 
waivers at the same time that it is proposing to increase dramatically the filiig fees for virtually 

l5 Immigration Fee Increases In  Context, (Washington, DC; Migration Policy Institute, Feb. 
2007) p.1. 
l6  Id.; A More Perfect  Union: A National Citizenship Plan (Washington DC: The Catholic Legal 
Immigration Network, Inc., Jan 2007), p.1. 
l7 See www.whitehouse.~ov/infocus/immi~ation/ 

all of its application and petition forms.  Historically, under the regulatidns at 8 C.F.R.  9 
103.7(c), as well as the various iterations of agency guidance issued by both the former INS and 
USCIS, the agency has had the flexibility to waive application or petition costs (for virtually all 
application types) for those individuals who were able to demonstrate that they were unable to 
afford the prescribed fee.  The agency's proposal to eliminate any possibility of fee waivers for a 
number of widely used application forms is an ill-advised shift from this historical practice. 
Eliminating the possibility of fee waivers will only exacerbate the problems that eligible 
immigrants and their families who cannot afford the proposed fees will face, should this rule 
become effective. 

The proposed amendments to 8 C.F.R.  9 103.7(c) would prohibit fee waivers for all but a short 
list of specific applicationtypes.18 A number of widely-used forms are not included on this list, 
and thus applicants for those benefits would longer be eligible even for consideration of a fee 
waiver, regardless of their individual circumstances.  While the application types that would no 
longer qualify for the possibility of a fee waiver include many business-based petitions and 
applications, we are puzzled by DHS's  decision to exclude several important family-based form 
types as well.  Included among the applications that USCIS would no longer consider for a 
waiver are Form 1-130 relative petitions, Form 1-360 petitions filed by widowers, and Form 1-485 
applications to adjust status to become a permanent resident. 

The justifications provided for this proposal are flawed, and the proposed change is entirely 
unnecessary to address any perceived problems with the current waiver process.  It appears fkom 
section XI of the preamble that DHS is proposing this change for two reasons.  The agency's first 
reason is that, because it is a fee-funded agency, any fee waiver that it grants transfers the costs 
to all other fee-paying applicants.  The second, and this should be no surprise, is that the agency 
expects to receive a higher rate of fee waiver requests once the proposed fee increased become 
effective.  "To  offset this potential,"  the preamble explains that DHS is amending the current 
regulations to limit the possibility of fee waivers where the "basic premise of a fee waiver is 
wholly or largely inconsistent with the status held or the benefit being sought."19 

The agency provides several examples of situations in which DHS considers fee waivers to be 
inconsistent with the benefit being sought.  These include companies that can request a waiver 
when seeking to admit a foreign worker to whom they must pay appropriate wages; individuals 
who can apply for a fee waiver when seeking status based on a substantial investment; or an 
extension of stay, where such persons must demonstrate the ability to support themselves during 
that stay without working; individuals who can seek a waiver who must demonstrate that they 
can support themselves; and those seeking to sponsor relatives who must commit to providing 

l8 Under the proposed rule, the only application forms that would still be eligible for 
consideration of a waiver would be Form 1-90, Form 1-751, Form 1-765, Form 1-817, Form N- 
300, Form N-336, Form N-400, Form 1-470, Form N-565, Form N-600, Form N-600Km and 
Form I-290B. 

l9  See 72 Fed. Reg. 4912 (Feb. 1,2007). 

necessary financial support to those relatives, so that they do not become a public charge.20 
However, the changes in this proposed rule are entirely unnecessary for ensuring that only 
deserving applicants receive fee waivers.  USCIS already has the authority, under the current 
regulations, to reject any fee waiver request in any case where it determines that the applicant 
-  - 
has failed to demonstrate that he or she cannot afford the fees.  More imvortantlv, the a~encv's 
underlying premise that fee waivers are automatically inappropriate in several of the examples 
cited, particularly those involving family-based immigration and sponsorship, is simply 
incorrect. 

. , 

A 

There is no automatic inconsistency between an individual applying for adjustment of status or 
seeking to sponsor a relative for admission to the United States and that particular applicant's 
need for a fee waiver.  This will be particularly true should the fee increases proposed in this 
. 
rulemaking go into effect.  An applicant for adjustment of status, or a petitioner seeking to 
sponsor one or more relatives to immigrate to the U.S.,  may very well be able to meet his or her 
financial obligations under the immigration laws but still be unable to pay, in one lump sum, the 
filing fees.  As discussed in section I, above, a substantial portion of the population who are 
eligible to apply for immigration benefits have incomes that are less than 200% of the poverty 
level.  Earlier, we discussed a hypothetical head of a family of four who earned 125% over the 
current poverty guidelines.  At that income level his three immediate family members seeking to 
adjust status are legally eligible and cannot be considered inadmissible for economic reasons. 
The head of the household may be fully able to support their needs on a daily basis.  However, 
he or she may very well be unable to afford to pay over $4,000 in a single lump sum, as would 
be required (if the proposed fees become effective), to file the application forms.  As in countless 
other similar situations, there is no inconsistency in considering a fee waiver with the benefit 
being sought.  However, the proposed rule would e l i i a t e  the agency's possibility of 
considering a fee waiver in just such cases, and, therefore, would only exacerbate the problems 
of individuals and families being cut off from our legal immigration processes. 

In addition, should the agency's proposal to sharply limit fee waivers become effective, it will 
create a strange inconsistency between the handling of fee waivers by DHS and the handling of 
waiver requests for many of the very same application types by the Department of Justice (DOJ). 
Immigration Judges, who are within DOJ, adjudicate many of the same applications for 
individuals in immigration court who have been placed in removal proceedings.  See  8 C.F.R.  5 
1003.24(d).  Should the DHS proposal go into effect, an individual who is in the United States 
legally who cannot afford to pay the $985 necessary to file an application for adjustment of 
status will be unable to obtain a waiver of the fee from USCIS.  However, an alien whom the 
Government is expending resources to deport in removal proceedings before an Immigration 
Judge will still be able to apply for fee waiver for the very same application.  There does not 
appear to be any reasonable basis for allowing an illegal alien to be considered for a waiver but 
preclude even the possibility of a waiver for individuals who are here legally.  As noted above, 
this is not a situation that Microsoft itself would regularly cofiont.  As an entity that thrives, 

Id. 

however, in arrangements in which it is imperative that the immigration system can be made to 
work, Microsoft feels it is important to comment on this section. 

The proposed rule also fails to demonstrate that there is any real necessity for making this 
change.  No  evidence is provided that fee waivers prove overly burdensome for the agency under 
the current regulations, for example, nor is there any evidence provided that the fees that are 
waived add excessively to the costs for other applicants who can afford to pay the fees.  No data 
has been provided regarding the number of fee waiver requests that the agency currently 
processes, the number of requests that are currently granted or denied, and the number of fee 
waiver applications that the agency expects to receive should the proposed fees go into effect. 
Thus, insufficient information has been provided to allow the public to reflect carefully on this 
proposal and assess its necessity.  However, it is our understanding that the number of fee waiver 
requests that the agency receives is a very tiny percentage of the total number of applications 
received.  At an oversight hearing before the House Immigration Subcommittee on February 14, 
2007, USCIS officials indicated that last year the agency received approximately 56,000 fee 
waiver requests, and that this represented only one-tenth of one percent of the overall application 
volume.  Just as striking, those same officials testified that USCIS currently grants 
approximately 85% of the fee waiver requests that it receives.21 

Microsoft strongly urges DHS to reconsider its proposal to limit fee waivers in this rulemaking. 
The fact that far less than one percent of the applicants who currently file applications request 
waivers, combined with the fact that USCIS &&ts  the vast majority of those requests that are 
made. clearlv indicates that there is no current svstemic ~roblem with abuse of the fee waiver 
process that requires correction.  The agency already has the authority to deny any waiver 
request that fails to demonstrate an inability to pay.  Additionally, the agency's underlying 

. 

that certain application types or benefits-are automaticdly inconsistent with even the 

possibility of a fee waiver is fundamentally flawed, particularly with regard to family-based 
applications.  While many family sponsors may be able to N l y  support the economic needs of 
the relatives they sponsor, they may not have the money to pay the large upfiont fees that will be 
required to file a number of applications should the increased fees go into effect.  The proposal to 
eliminate fee waivers thus is based upon faulty premises, is targeted at aproblem that doesn't 
demonstrably exist, and will cause extreme hardship in many individual cases where deserving 
applicants do not have the funds to file immigration applications and can no longer be considered 
for a waiver. 

21  Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law 
Oversight Hearing on The Proposed Immigration Fee Increase, February 14,2007. A video 
webcast of the hearing is available at htt~://iudiciary.house.gov/ov/over~i~t.aspx?lD=270. 

Conclusion 

Microsoft thanks DHS for the opporhmity to comment on this proposed regulation.  Microsoft 
strongly supports USCIS'  goal to improve customer service, and it endorses the agency's need 
for additional funding to accomplish that goal.  However, DHS should seek those funds at least 
partly through additional appropriations from Congress rather than through higher application 
fees.  The proposed rule would put in place a fee regime that is excessive, not required by law or 
facts, and detrimental to the goal of avoiding delays to key processing in systems that USCIS 
(and Microsoft) considers indispensable.  The fee amounts in the proposed rulemaking are 
entirely out of line with the benefits processed for a "regular user"  company like Microsoft.  It is 
critical to remember that Microsoft is a major employer for U.S.  workers, and will continue to be 
so as long as conditions make that possible.  The more these fees increase, the more that affects 
the business calculation that a company must make about where it should hire globally.  U.S. 
policy should strive always to make sure the answer to that is, "the United States."  The proposed 
rule should be withdrawn so that DHS can perform an analysis of all of the relevant costs and 
benefits and seek additional appropriations. 

Sincerely, 

I 

Lydia Tamez 
Associate General Counsel 
Legal and Corporate Affairs 
Microsoft Corporation 

Cc:  By facsimile (866-466-5370) 

Director 
Regulatory Management Division 
U.S.  Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
11 1 Massachusetts Avenue, NW,  31d Floor 
Washington, DC 20529