April 2, 2007 

Director Emilio Gonzalez 
Regulatory Management Division 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security  
111 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, 3rd Floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

REF: DHS Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044 

Dear Director Gonzalez: 

Catholic Community Services respectfully submits this comment in opposition to 
the proposed rule to increase immigration fees as published in 72 Fed. Reg. 21 at 4888 
(Feb. 1, 2007).   

Catholic Community Services’ Interest in the Proposed Rule 

Catholic Community Services of Utah (CCS) is a non-profit organization in Salt 
Lake  City,  Utah  which  serves  a  diverse  array  of  individuals  in  need  of  compassionate 
service.    In  addition  to  its  homeless  outreach  and  substance  treatment  services,  CCS  of 
Utah  also  provides  assistance  to  nearly  300  refugees  each  year  who  are  cleared  for 
resettlement  in  the  United  States.    The  CCS  immigration  program  strives  to  provide 
affordable  and  competent  immigration  counseling  and  assistance  with  such  matters  as 
refugee family reunification, alien relative visa petitions, applications for non-immigrant 
and  immigrant  visas,  adjustment  of  status  to  lawful  permanent  resident,  employment 
authorization, naturalization, asylum consultation, and immigration court representation.  
In addition to these core services, CCS provides other related, peripheral legal assistance 
as required.  Also, through outreach activities that occur in cooperation with its charitable 
community  counterparts,  CCS  works  to  promote  knowledge  and  awareness  of  basic 
immigration  principles  and  to  dispel  the  harmful  misinformation  circulating  among 
migrant groups.   

Many  of  CCS’  clients  live  at  or  below  the  federal  poverty  level  and  have 
significant  difficulties  learning  the  English  language.    For  this  highly  vulnerable 
population,  the  complexity  of  the  immigration  process  can  often  make  even  simple 
immigration  matters  seem  daunting.    Moreover  the  expense  of  private  counsel  can  put 
professional  immigration  assistance  out  of  reach.    It  is  for  this  reason  that  the  CCS’ 
Immigration  Program  was  established  and  continues  to  carry  out  its  mission  to  provide 
affordable, quality immigration legal service to refugees and immigrants living in Utah. 

Comments on the Proposed Action 

Our comment addresses five main issues:   

1

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  The mandate issued by Congress in 8 U.S.C. §1356 (m) that the USCIS recover 
the  full  costs  of  adjudicating  immigrant  petitions  should  not  be  interpreted  to 
mean that immigrants must also bear the burden of funding the USCIS mission to 
protect national security.    

2.  Many  of  the  proposed  fees  are  cost  prohibitive  to  qualified  law-abiding 
immigrants.  This means that fewer qualified applicants will submit petitions for 
benefits and that many of those to do elect to file for benefits will likely no longer 
be able afford legal representation for their filings.  Two of the proposed fees will 
cause immeasurable hardships to immigrant clients: 

A.  The  proposed  fee  for  the  I-485  Adjustment  of  Status  is  faulty  because  it 
does not present a clear and understandable reason why raising the fee will 
benefit I-485 applicants or increase operational efficiencies.   

B.  The proposed N-400 fee is grossly disproportionate to the average income 
level of N-400 naturalization applicants and therefore cost prohibitive.     

3.  The proposal to remove the ability of most applicants to apply for a fee waiver is 
unreasonable and arbitrary because it does not provide evidence that USCIS has 
thoroughly analyzed the need for a ban on fee waivers for each type of application 
type.    

4.  USCIS  has  expressed  no  satisfactory  justification  for  their  refusal  to  approach 
Congress  for  funds  to  make  the  improvements  in  USCIS  technology  and 
infrastructure which are necessary to ensure the permanent eradication of legacy 
INS  backlogs;  nor  has  USCIS  offered  a  legitimate  rationale  for  Director 
Gonzalez’  refusal  to  request  that  Congress  appropriate  funding  for  the  USCIS 
goals  proposed  in  the  rule.    This  decision  appears  to  clearly  be  arbitrary  and 
capricious in light of Senate Bill 795 which has proposed to fund USCIS activities 
which are not directly associated with processing or adjudication.   

1.  The  statute  authorizing  USCIS  to  collect  fees  to  recover  the  full  costs  of 
providing “adjudication and naturalization services” does not authorize USCIS 
to  use  those  fees  to  promote  the  national  security  objectives  of  the  executive 
branch.   

The proposed rule states in section II that the Immigration and Nationality Act of 
1952  (8  U.S.C.  1356)  authorizes  USCIS  to  collect  “fees  for  providing  adjudication and 
naturalization services….. [1] that will ensure recovery of the full costs of providing all 
such  services…  [and]  any  additional  costs  associated  [2]  with  the  administration  of  the 
fees collected.”   

This  statute  confers  rather  broad  and  discretionary  power  on  the  USCIS  to 
determine  what  fee  rates  will  allow  it  to  recover  the  costs  of  adjudication  and 
administration. This statute does not envision nor does it authorize the USCIS to collect 

2

 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
costs to devise the means and infrastructure necessary to help to protect national security.  
The proposed rule, however, clearly includes a proposal to raise fees to help the USCIS 
protect national security.   

The  proposed  rule  states  that  the  protection  of  national  security  has  become  a 
major  objective  of  the  USCIS  which  demands  that  USCIS  increase  processing  fees  so 
that  USCIS  can  conduct  thorough  and  comprehensive  national  security  background 
checks.  For example, Section X (pp 4911) of the proposed rule states that “most of the 
increases  in  completion  rates  are  associated  with  the  additional  time  devoted  to  the 
expansion of background checks to all immigration benefit applications instituted in July 
2002.”    Section  VI  (b)  and  Table  8  announced  that  nearly  2%  or  approximately  48 
million  dollars  of  all  processing  costs  are  attributed  to  the  new  IBIS  national  security 
which  were  mandated  in  July  of  2002.    In  Section  III  subsection  C  (3)  (Urgency  and 
Rationale  for  New  Fee  Schedule)  the  USCIS  states  that  “this  rule  proposes  additional 
funding  in  support  of  FBI  name  checks.”  It  is  assumed  that  the  additional  funding 
mentioned  here  relates  to  the  biometrics  fee  increase  which  will  rise  from  $70.00  to 
$80.00.    Unfortunately,  the  proposed  rule  does  not  list  a  specific  budget  allocation  for 
FBI name checks nor does it make mention of how much money the USCIS will need to 
ensure the efficient administration of  FBI name checks. Previously, the USCIS had only 
administered  a  domestic  criminal  background  check  of  applicants  for  immigration 
benefits.  This FBI fingerprint check had been authorized by Pub. L. 105-119, 111 Stat. 
2448-2449 (1997).   To date the fee imposed to recover the cost of taking biometrics to 
conduct this cost has not been cost prohibitive.   

The  costs  associated  with  the  administration  of  the  FBI  name  checks,  however, 
are another matter entirely.  As of July of 2002 the USCIS changed its security policy to 
require two new security checks of each immigrant applicant: 1) an IBIS check and 2) an 
FBI name check. Although the proposed rule describes the funding demands for the new 
IBIS checks, the rule makes no reference to the administrative and processing problems 
related to the FBI name check.  The DHS’ own inspector general published a report on 
the  problems  which  resulted  from  the  implementation  of  the  FBI  name  check  in  2002.    
This  report  entitled  “A  Review  of  U.S.  Citizenship  and  Immigration  Services’  Alien 
Security 
at 
06-06), 
http://www.dhs.gov/interweb/assetlibrary/OIG_06-06_Nov05.pdf  states that:  

(November 

available 

Checks, 

2005) 

(OIG 

“…for  a  fraction  of  cases,  slow,  inconclusive,  or  legally  inapplicable 
security check results can cause application processing to stall for months 
or even years. These delays can interfere with USCIS’ concluding national 
security  and  public  safety  hits  with  timely  denials  or  referrals  to  law 
enforcement. In addition, stalled cases decrease operational efficiency by 
reducing  productivity  and  contributing  to  hundreds  of  lawsuits  against 
USCIS.”1  

Nowhere  in  Section  VI  (which  describes  USCIS  current  and  proposed 
expenditures) does the USCIS propose a figure which will eliminate the FBI backlog of 
name checks.  Although the authority of the USCIS to resolve these delays has become a 
subject  of  litigation;  the  USCIS  itself  has  stated  that  it  has  both  the  authority  and  the 
capability to take action to resolve delays.  In fact, the November 2005 OIG report even 

1 Department of Homeland Security (OIG 06-06) at 24. 

3

 
                                                 
 
referenced the fact that the USCIS had once ‘detailed’ six staff to the FBI to help resolve 
the  name  check  delays.  2    In  December  of  2006  the  USCIS  released  an  internal  memo 
titled  “FBI  Name  Checks  Policy  and  Process  Clarification  for  Domestic  Operations” 
issued by Associate Director of Operations Michael Aytes on December 21, 2006 .  This 
memo stated that the USCIS would only expedite name check cases in four situations: 1) 
military service; 2) age outs; 3) dire medical emergencies and 4) social security income 
terminations.  Both sources verify that the USCIS has the authority necessary to deal with 
what  has  become  a  major  obstacle  to  efficient  processing;  yet  the  proposed  rule  never 
designates a funding allocation for this purpose.   

CCS does not dispute the omission of funding allocations for FBI name checks.  
This  is  because  FBI  name  checks  are  clearly  performed  pursuant  to  the  promotion  of 
national security objectives, and therefore FBI name checks are not the types of activities 
which  should  be  funded  by  immigrant  processing  fees.  CCS  does  find  it  worrisome, 
however  that  the  proposed  rule  includes  the  following  two  features:  1)  The  statement 
made  by  Director  Gonzalez  on  the  day  he  introduced  the  rule  which  declared  that  the 
USCIS had no intention of requesting Congressional appropriations, which would mean 
that the USCIS receive no funding to help it eliminate the FBI name check backlog; 2) 
The  rule  does  state  that  processing  fees  will  be  used  to  fund  IBIS  checks,  an  activity 
which relates more to the USCIS mission to protect national security than to its mandate 
to recover the costs of adjudication and administration of immigrant petitions.  As shown 
above,  the  IBIS  checks  have  become  a  major  cost  for  the  USCIS.    The  IBIS  database, 
however, is often included in government reports which evaluate the effectiveness of the 
“terrorist watch list” database system.3 It is obvious, therefore, that the design, operation 
and  maintenance  of  the  USCIS  IBIS  checks  and  the  FBI  name  checks  have  become 
critical tools to the ability of the government to protect national security.   

Because  IBIS  and  FBI  name  checks  do  not  amount  to  mere  processing  or 
administrative costs; applicants for immigration benefits should not be forced to bear the 
burden  of  this  cost  alone.    Therefore,  USCIS  should  remove  from  its  proposed  rule  all 
requests  for  funding  which  relate  to  its  mission  to  protect  the  national  security  of  the 
United States.  The USCIS should then seek a more proper and appropriate source for this 
funding  by  requesting  that  the  Executive  and  or  Congress  propose  a  bill  which  would 
allocate  funding  to  the  USCIS  at  a  level  which  will  allow  the  USCIS  to  design, 
implement and maintain an efficient and reliable security check system.  Unfortunately, 
the  USCIS  Director  Gonzalez  appears  unwilling  to  seek  Congressional  appropriations; 
this refusal (as elaborated in point 4) makes the entire premise of the rule arbitrary and 
capricious. 

2.  Many  of  the  proposed  fees  are  cost  prohibitive  for  qualified  law-abiding 

immigrants. 

2 Id. at 27 (the report stated specifically that “in March 2005, USCIS detailed five personnel to the FBI 
National Name Check Program for up to a year to assist with the pending FBI name checks.”) 

3 3 U.S. General Accounting Office (GAO), Report to Congressional Requesters, Information Technology:  
Terrorist Watch Lists Should Be Consolidated to Promote Better Integration and Sharing.  GAO-03-322 
available at http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d03322.pdf

4

 
 
                                                 
 
 
 
The immigrants and refugees served by CCS have expressed alarm about the fees 
proposed  in  the  rule.  These  clients  already  work  for  months  to  save  the  resources 
necessary to pay for immigration benefits at the current fee rate.  The ‘cost of inflation’ 
fee  increases  in  the  last  few  years  have  already  put  many  immigration  benefits  out  of 
reach for low income immigrants and refugees.   

CCS  resettles  several  hundred  refugees  each  year.    Refugees  make  a  heroic 
attempt  to  adapt  to  American  culture,  learn  English  and  support  large  families  (CCS 
routinely  resettles  families  of  8-12  people).    It  is  rare,  however,  for  refugees  to  be  in  a 
position to forgo all federal public assistance within the first 10 years of their resettlement.  
For  example,  a  majority  of  the  Somali,  Sudanese,  Liberian,  Iraqi  and  Afghan  refugees 
resettled by CCS from 1995-2001 continue to receive housing assistance and food stamps 
due  to  the  low  wages  they  receive  for  their  work  and  the  large  size  of  their  families. 
When  it  comes  time  for  refugees  to  adjust  their  status,  sponsor  family  members  or 
naturalize they often have to save what little income they have to be able to pay for the 
filing fees.  As a result, most immigrant and refugee families must pay for immigration 
benefits like adjustment of status and naturalization on a piecemeal basis.  These families 
also  often  seek  alternatives  to  immigration  benefits  which  are  clearly  inferior  to  the 
benefits  provided  by  the  USCIS  but  which  may  be  purchased  for  a  lower  cost.    For 
example,  many  refugees  and  asylees  forgo  submitting  applications  for  permanent 
residence because they cannot afford the fees.  In doing so they put themselves at risk of 
repatriation  if  the  country  conditions  of  their  home  states  ever  change.    Furthermore, 
many parents of minor children who naturalize in the U.S. elect to obtain U.S. passports 
for their children rather than the more permanent citizenship certificates simply because 
passports cost much less than the N-600.   

CCS  anticipates  that  trends  like  this  will  continue  and  even  worsen  if  the 
proposed  fees  take  effect.    Moreover,  this  proposed  rule  will  force  most  immigrants  to 
divert  funds  they  may  otherwise  have  used  for  legal  counsel  to  covering  the  more 
expensive filing fees.  This would mean that more applications will be filed incorrectly, 
incompletely  or  submitted  by  immigrants  who  are  not  even  eligible  for  the  benefit  for 
which they have applied.  This would lead to an increase in inefficiency for the USCIS.  
It  would  also  likely  delay  and  complicate  processing  and  adjudication  because 
adjudicators  will  find  it  necessary  to  issue  more  requests  for  evidence.    Even  more 
worrisome,  it  is  likely  that  qualified  applicants  may  resort  to  seeking  advice  from  low 
cost but dishonest practitioners who prey upon economically disadvantaged immigrants.  
These  unlicensed  practitioners  also  often  turn  clean  cases  into  disorganized  messes  and 
frequently submit applications on behalf of ineligible immigrants.       

Therefore, CCS proposes that the USCIS reconsider raising the fees for family based 
petitions,  adjustment  of  status  applications  and  naturalization  related  petitions.    In 
particular, CCS requests that the USCIS consider the following arguments with respect to 
the I-485 and the N-400: 

A.  The proposed rule’s discussion of the new I-485 fee is confusing, misleading and 
unreasonable  and  therefore  the  USCIS  should  reconsider  raising  the  fee  for  I-
485 applications.  

5

 
 
 
 
CCS  is  a  Catholic  Legal  Immigration  Network  Inc  (CLINIC)  and  U.S.  affiliate.  
The  CLINIC  comment  to  the  proposed  rule  (submitted  by  Mirna  Torres)  declared  that:  
“Under  the  proposed  rule,  the  I-485  filing  fee  will  rise  from  the  current  fee  of  $325  to 
$905.    An  additional  $80  biometric  fee  would  bring  the  I-485  filing  fee  to  $985.    This 
excludes  the  cost  of  the  medical  examination,  which  must  be  filed  with  the  I-485 
application.    Medical  examination  fees  range  from  $100  to  $200.    Therefore,  at  a 
minimum, an applicant would need $1,100 (excluding the cost of legal services) to file an 
I-485  form.    The  current  federal  minimum  wage  is  $5.15  per  hour.    A  minimum  wage 
worker would need to work 214 hours (nearly five and a half weeks at 40 hours a week) 
to  meet  the  $1,100  fee.    For  many  of  the  clients  served  by  our  programs,  savings  after 
meeting monthly living expenses are minimal, and our clients would require years to save 
sufficient funds to file an I-485 application at the proposed cost.”(CLINIC comment pp. 
2)    CCS believes that this statement is an accurate depiction of the situation which our 
clients will face if the proposed rule takes effect.   

CCS predicts that this fee will likely have a disastrous effect on asylees who do 
not receive automatic fee waivers for I-485 applications.  Asylee applicants often apply 
for permanent residence with their families.  An asylee family of five would have to pay 
more than $5,000 to adjust status.  Because it appears that the proposed rule would refuse 
to allow an I-485 applicant to submit a request for a fee waiver of the I-485 fee, a low 
income asylee family of five would never be able to afford to adjust status.   

Unfortunately,  the  USCIS  has  not  offered  a  reasonable,  rational  or  even  clearly 
understandable motive for raising the I-485 fee to such a cost prohibitive level.  Instead 
the  USCIS  has  stated  that  since  current  I-485  applicants  now  already  “pay  for  the 
processing costs of interim benefits,” (at a cost of nearly $400.00) the $580 increase in 
the I-485 application fee “is far less significant” than it would seem.  The obvious error in 
this reasoning is that with the promised improvements in efficiency, the need for interim 
benefits  will  decrease  with  the  presumably  shorter  adjudication  period.    Moreover,  this 
rationale completely dismisses that fact that a large percentage of I-485 applicants never 
applied for interim benefits in the first place.  Furthermore, at no point in the discussion 
relating  to  the  I-485  fee  increase  did  the  USCIS  state  that  it  would  grant  work 
authorization  or  advance  parole  to  travel  automatically.    In  fact,  the  rule  states  in 
III(C)(5)(pp4892)  that  the  USCIS  will  reserve  the  right  to  continue  to  use  the  I-131 
application  and  the  I-765  applications  to  process  interim  benefits  for  those  cases  where 
“delays  in  processing  will  require  issuance  of  interim  benefits.”    This  means  that  the 
proposed rule will fail to help the USCIS become more efficient because it appears that 
applicants will still need to submit separate applications for interim benefits which would 
require that the USCIS continue to adjudicate three petitions instead of one.  Therefore, 
the  new  fee  will  essentially  charge  each  I-485  applicant  for  a  work  authorization  and 
advance parole even though payment of the new fee will neither guarantee that applicants 
will automatically receive these benefits nor will it even increase USCIS efficiency.  For 
this reason, the proposed I-485 fee increase is both misleading and unreasonable because 
it will impose an enormous burden on applicants without providing any real benefit.    

B.  The  proposed  N-400  fee  will  impose  a  cost  prohibitive  obstacle  to  immigrants 

who desire to apply for citizenship.     

6

 
 
 
The  CLINIC  comment  submitted  by  Mirna  Torres  published  these  findings:  “A 
study by the Urban Institute found that 41 percent (2.4 million) immigrants now eligible 
to naturalize have incomes under 200 percent of the poverty level, including 17 percent 
with  income  under  the  federal  poverty  level.    The  proposed  rule  would  increase  the 
combined  N-400  and  biometrics  fees  from  a  total  of  $400  to  $675.    An  immigrant 
working at a minimum-wage job would need to work for more than three weeks and save 
all  of  his  or  her  earning  to  pay  this  fee.”    (CLINIC  comment  pp  2)  This  depiction 
accurately  describes  the  client  population  which  CCS  serves.    Refugees  and  who  reach 
the five year mark of their permanent residence and have often worked hard to become 
self sufficient enough to forgo federal public assistance.  Refugees limited education and 
English  language  abilities,  however,  often  mean  that  they  struggle  to  stay  afloat 
financially  which  means  that  it  is  often  extremely  difficult  for  them  to  pay  the  N-400 
filing fees.  These clients often express their frustration about the immigration fee system 
because  they  feel  that  their  ability  to  stay  off  the  welfare  roles  is  not  rewarded.    They 
state  that  it  is  unfair  for  the  USCIS  to  continue  to  raise  the  costs  associated  with 
citizenship  applications  if  it  refuses  to  grant  fee  waivers  or  fee  breaks  to  low  income 
immigrants who have worked hard to stay off welfare.  The proposed N-400 fee increase 
exacerbates this problem.  In fact, it may even send a message to immigrants that the US 
government  is  trying  to  put  citizenship  out  of  the  reach  of  low  to  middle  income 
immigrants.     

CCS,  as  a  community  advocate,  already  struggles  to  encourage  refugees  and 
immigrants to take the steps necessary to become U.S. citizens.  CCS anticipates that the 
proposed rule will create another needless obstacle in the road toward citizenship, which 
for many refugees and immigrants is already filled with many hurdles.  English language 
and  civic  education  remain  huge  obstacles  to  immigrants  and  refugees  who  desire  to 
become U.S. Citizens.  Refugees, as persecuted minorities, often lack basic literacy skills 
in  their  own  language  and  have  enormous  difficulties  grasping  constitutional  concepts 
given  their  long  history  of  persecution  and  torture.    As  a  result,  they  often  have  to 
participate  in  fee  based  ESL/Civic  education  programs  for  several  months  before  they 
feel competent enough to apply for citizenship. The  proposed  rule makes  no  attempt to 
address the educational hurdles faced by immigrants who wish to apply for citizenship.  
In fact, the proposed fee appears to be a mere arbitrary fee increase which fails to allocate 
any  funds  to  USCIS  community  liaisons  who  are  charged  with  a  congressional  duty  to 
“promote  the  opportunities  and  responsibilities  of  U.S.  citizenship”  by  designing  and 
distributing  materials  in  cooperation  with  community  groups  and  “private  voluntary 
agencies” pursuant to INA § 332 (h).   

Therefore the proposed rule not only fails to improve the ability of the USCIS to 

promote civic education and understanding, it will make the situation worse.   

3.  The proposed fee waiver system discussed in section XI proposes an unnecessary 

and ill reasoned bar to fee waivers for most applications.   

It  is  undisputed  that  there  are  instances  in  which  the  rejection  of  a  fee  waiver 
application  is  appropriate.    The  proposed  rule  states  that  currently  even  businesses 
attempt  to  apply  for  fee  waivers  under  the  current  discretionary  system.    While  it  may 
make sense for the USCIS to bar applicants for employment based immigration benefits 

7

 
 
 
from  requesting  that  the  USCIS  waive  the  application  fees;  it  will  be  unfair  and 
unreasonable  for  the  USCIS  to  impose  such  a  ban  on  I-485  applicants  and  family 
reunification petitioners.   

The proposed rule states that many immigrant applicants will be held to the public 
charge grounds of inadmissibility.  The rule asserts that permitting one of these applicants 
to apply for a fee waiver is contrary to the very purpose of the application.  The rule also 
states  that  eliminating  the  ability  of  most  applicants  to  apply  for  a  fee  waiver  will  also 
increase processing efficiency.  (see rule pp. 4912). While it may be efficient to impose 
such a ban it will certainly not be fair.  Moreover, the list of applicants who will continue 
to  be  eligible  for  a  fee  waiver  is  grossly  under-inclusive.    In  fact,  it  appears  that  the 
USCIS has failed to present any figures in Section XI which verify that the USCIS has 
undertaken  a  cautious  and  thoughtful  study  of  the  fee  waiver  issue.    Therefore,  the 
proposal  to  eliminate  fee  waivers  for  most  immigration  benefit  applicants  is  clearly 
arbitrary and capricious.   

There  are  two  major  examples  of  the  arbitrary  way  in  which  the  USCIS  has 
imposed the fee waiver bar.  First, the proposal bars all I-485 applicants from applying 
for fee waivers because it states that all adjustment applicants must prove that they will 
not  become  public  charges.    This  is  an  obvious  error  because  many  classes  of  I-485 
applicants  are  exempt  from  the  public  charge  grounds  of  inadmissibility.    Refuges  and 
asylees are statutorily exempt from the public charge grounds.  Similarly, applicants who 
petition  for  permanent  residence  pursuant  to  the  Violence  Against  Women  Act,  the 
Cuban  Adjustment  Act,  the  Nicaraguan  Adjustment  and  Central  American  Relief  Act, 
and  the  Haitian  Refugee  Immigration  Fairness  Act  are  also  exempt  from  the  public 
charge ground of inadmissibility.  These exemptions were granted by Congress because 
the populations in question were historically disadvantaged, low income, or like Cubans, 
refugees  and  asylees,  would  have  already  received  direct  grants  of  federal  public 
assistance in recognition of their financial hardships. Therefore, it would be contrary to 
the  clear  intent  of  Congress  for  USCIS  to  bar  these  applicants  from  filing  fee  waiver 
applications when they apply for permanent residence.   

The second major oversight made by the USCIS’ proposed fee waiver ban is its 
inclusion of the family reunification petition.  The proposed I-130 fee will nearly double 
under the proposed fee increase, yet the USCIS intends to forbid all I-130 applicants from 
filing  for  fee  waivers.    While  it  could  be  argued  that  I-130  sponsors  will  be  asked  to 
prove  that  they  have  sufficient  income  to  ensure  that  their  beneficiaries  do  not  become 
public charges and thus should not receive fee waivers; this argument does not recognize 
the reality of family sponsorship.  Most family sponsors face a 5-10 year wait prior to the 
arrival  of  their  family  member  depending  on  visa  availability.    It  is  therefore 
advantageous  for  immigrants  to  sponsor  family  members  as  soon  as  they  are  eligible.  
Moreover, immigrants must often file more than I-130 application at a time because they 
have  more  than  one  family  member  with  whom  they  wish  to  be  reunited.    These 
circumstances  often  necessitate  that  the  sponsor  submit  a  fee  waiver  application  with 
his/her I-130 petition.  Because the sponsor is not required to demonstrate his/her ability 
to  support  the  beneficiary  until  the  Visa  becomes  available  (in  some  cases  5-10  years 
after  the  date  the  I-130  was  submitted);  the  imposition  of  a  fee  waiver  ban  on  this 
category of applicant would impose a needless hardship on an immigrant who will likely 
be eligible to support the family member when the visa for the relative becomes available.  

8

 
Refugees in particular would suffer if this ban is put into effect.  Many refugees whose 
relatives to not qualify for reunification pursuant to an I-730 application wish to file an I-
130  shortly  after  they  arrive.    Most  refugees  do  not  have  the  capacity  to  support  the 
relative on the date of filing, nor do they have sufficient resources to pay the I-130 filing 
fee.  Because refugees apply for family members as permanent residents, they routinely 
wait 5-8 years before the arrival of the relative.  This normally gives the refugee enough 
time to become self sufficient and earn enough resources to be able to file the affidavit of 
support when the Visa becomes available.  If the proposed fee increase raises the I-130 
fee to $305.00 and the USCIS bans all I-130 applicants from filing for a fee increase it 
would effectively bar most refugees and other similarly situated low income immigrants 
from filing an I-130 application.  Moreover, if Congress elects to renew the INA 245(i) 
provision,  the  deadline  will  likely  not  allow  most  immigrants  sufficient  time  to  save  to 
pay the new I-130 fee.  Therefore, the fee waiver bar would also block the opportunity of 
thousands of aliens to qualify for future 245(i) relief.  

Because  the  fee  waiver  bar  neither  addresses  nor  even  predicts  the  potential 
problems which a few waiver bar could create for immigrant and refugee petitioners, it is 
clearly arbitrary and capricious and should be removed from the proposed rule.   

4.  The  USCIS  Director  has  failed  to  express  a  satisfactory  justification  for  his 
refusal  to  approach  Congress  for  allocation  of  additional  funds  to  support 
USCIS  services,  therefore  the  USCIS  this  proposed  fee  increase  amounts  to  an 
arbitrary  and  capricious  fee  increase  which  will  overwhelm  immigrant 
applicants and burden them with costs which would be better allocated to U.S. 
taxpayers via congressional appropriations.   

CCS  in  no  way  wishes  to  imply  by  submitting  this  comment  that  the  projected 
improvements in service, processing, technology and security proposed by the rule are ill 
devised  or  unnecessary.    Rather,  these  proposals  are  commendable  and  reflect  the  new 
USCIS  dedication  to  service  and  efficiency  which  has  been  welcomed  and  lauded  by 
immigrant  and  refugee  groups.    In  fact,  immigrants  and  refugees  are  across  the  board 
more satisfied than ever before with the level of service and commitment to fairness and 
efficiency which USCIS has demonstrated in recent years.  The proposed rule declares, 
however,  that  the  USCIS  must  receive  a  large  influx  in  cash  in  order  for  the  USCIS  to 
continue offering these types of higher quality service.     

Many  of  these  improvements  were  made  possible  by  the  Congressional 
allocations  which  granted  beginning  in  FY2002  pursuant  to  the  President’s  backlog 
elimination  plan.    The  proposed  rule,  the  statement  of  the  director  and  the  community 
presentations  made  by  community  liaisons  have  all  asserted  that  this  funding  was 
insufficient  to  remedy  the  systemic  problems  which  caused  the  backlog.    In  fact,  this 
funding  allowed  USCIS  to  hire  temporary  staff,  fund  a  customer  service  contract 
company  to  respond  to  customer  queries  and  rent  temporary  overflow  facilities.    These 
activities helped the USCIS to achieve its goal of a 6 month processing turnaround time.   
This heroic effort was applauded by most immigrant groups.  The proposed rule and the 
accompanying  figures,  facts  and  statements  have  made  clear  however,  that  the  backlog 
elimination  plan  and  the  allocations  provided  pursuant  to  this  plan  were  insufficient  to 
address  the  systemic  problems  which  created  the  backlog.    CCS  and  many  other  legal 

9

 
 
 
advocates contend that the President and the U.S. Congress have the duty to continue to 
allocate  and  appropriate  funds  to  the  USCIS  until  the  USCIS  has  eliminated  the  root 
causes for the backlog.  Therefore, all of the funding which the USCIS requires to make 
technological upgrades, staff training, increased resources for staff hiring and additional 
facilities should be provided by Congress not processing fees.    

While  the  USCIS  is  under  an  executive  mandate  to  operate  primarily  as  a  fee-
based  organization,  Congress  has  expressed  willingness  to  work  with  the  Agency  to 
improve  services.    This  willingness  was  evidenced  with  the  2002  budget  appropriation 
and  the  renewal  of  this  appropriation  every  year  for  four  years.    Last  month 
Congressional  leaders  (including  Senator  Barak  Obama),  proposed  bill  S795  which 
intends to block the proposed fee increase and provide enough appropriations (at a level 
which will be proposed by a new GAO study) to promote citizenship education. This bill  
even proposes to clarify the USCIS funding mandate by declaring that:  
(b) Sense of Congress- It is the sense of Congress that-- 
(1) the Secretary of Homeland Security should set fees under section 286(m)(3) of 
the  Immigration  and  Nationality  Act  (8  U.S.C.  1356(m)(3)),  as  amended  by 
subsection  (a)  of  this  section,  at  a  level  that  ensures  recovery  of  only  the  direct 
costs associated with the services described in such section 286(m)(3); and 
(2)  Congress  should  appropriate  to  the  Secretary  of  Homeland  Security  such 
funds as may be necessary to cover the indirect costs associated with the services 
described in such section 286(m)(3). (Text of Bill S 795 §2 (b)) 

 Many  commentators,  legal  practitioners,  for  profit  and  non  profit  organizations 

in  pursuing 

largely  uninterested 

the  USCIS  appears 

have expressed willingness to lobby Congressional leaders in support of bills like S795.    
Sadly, 
the  possibility  of 
Congressional appropriations to help it meet its technological, infrastructural and service 
oriented goals.  In fact, Director Gonzalez stated that: “we have a mandate that we be a 
self-sustaining, fee-based agency, and I have not in my conversation with Congress ever 
gone and asked for an appropriation.  At this point I have no intention of doing so.”  This 
response is clearly inadequate given both the compelling national security needs faced by 
the  USCIS  and  the  willingness  of  Congress  to  provide  funding  to  the  USCIS.    This 
irrational  and  unreasonable  attitude  undermines  the  very  purpose  of  proposing  this  rule 
which is supposedly based on a study of all available sources of income for the USCIS.  
Therefore, the rule itself appears to be arbitrary and capricious in that is not based on a 
sound reasoning or analysis of all possible funding sources.   

As  stated  in  point  1  of  this  comment,  the  rule  also  clearly  inappropriately  shifts 
the  burden  of  the  USCIS  to  protect  the  national  security  from  Congress  to  immigrant 
applicants  themselves.    As  such  the  rule  should  be  withdrawn  until  such  time  as  the 
USCIS proposes and receives a level of Congressional appropriations which will allow it 
to permanently eliminate the processing backlog by removing the systemic inefficiencies, 
staff  and  building  shortages,  and  out  dated  technology  which  led  to  the  backlog  in  the 
first place.  USCIS also clearly needs to evaluate what level of resources it will need to 
implement, maintain and efficiently administer the type of background checks which are 
essential  to  its  ability  to  protect  national  security.    After  conducting  this  thorough 
evaluation  the  USCIS  needs  to  present  its  findings  to  Congress  and  ask  for  a  level  of 
funding which will allow it to meet its national security objective.  Until and unless the 

10

 
 
USCIS  makes  this  effort,  all  major  increases  in  application  fees  will  be  arbitrary  and 
capricious and an abuse of the discretion held by the USCIS to make a well reasoned and 
informed rule.   

We thank you for your consideration of our comment and hope that you will seek 

to address the issues herein.  

Most Sincerely, 

Aden Batar, Director; Alyssa Williams, Immigration Attorney 
Refugee Resettlement and Immigration 
Catholic Community Services of Utah 

11