MY COMMENT: 

Why everytime an alien who is already in USCIS or US Immigration Court proceedings, MUST pay 
everytime his/her fingerprints (Biometrics) need to be taken when applying for different immigration 
benefits? Fingerprints ridges never change. 

ADDITIONAL COMMENT:  

CASE No. MSC0631514412; A 096 349 765 

My wife's (a former asylum applicant is going through the process of becoming a temporary lawful resident 
alien based on her marriage to me) employment authorization card (EAD) was denying because we did not 
have Form I-220B. This was the third time she applied and the first time she got denied. Please see below: 

1. Prior to the expiration of her Employment Authorization Card (EAD), Anik Muridah, 
aka: Anik Contreras (Applicant), applied for a renewal of her last EAD issued on 
September 7, 2005 and to be expired on September 6, 2006. 

2. On October 2, 2006, Director Robert M. Cowan, U.S. Department of Homeland 
Security, Citizenship and Immigration Services, P. O. Box 648004, Lee’s Summit, MO 
64-064 (Agency) wrote a letter to the applicant asking for a copy of Form I-220B. 

3. On October 7, 2006, Applicant and her husband submitted Declarations stating that 
the Applicant has never received Form I-220B (Order of Supervision).  

4. On October 30, 2006, Director Cowan, issued a Notice of Decision denying the 
Applicant’s Employment Authorization Card based on the declaration submitted by the 
Applicant’s husband, giving the reason for the denial that Applicant did not produce a 
copy of I-220B and that the Applicant "had never been under an order of supervision." 

5. On November 5, 2006, the Applicant and her husband sent Director Cowan a letter via 
First Class U.S. Mail and by E-mail, a request for reconsideration. Director Cowan or any 
member of his staff responded to the letter, signed by the Applicant and her husband. The 
Agency (Director Cowan) ignored the letter and failed to respond. 

5. On February 4, 2007, Applicant’s husband sent Director Cowan another letter via First 
Class U.S. Mail and an E-mail, which was received by either Mr. Cowan or a member of 
his staff asking to reconsider the Agency’s decision to deny the Applicant’s EAD. Once 
again, the Agency ignored the Applicant’s and her husband request and failed to respond.

6. Up to this date, the Applicant and hers husband, a retired U.S. Immigration and 
Customs Enforcement (ICE) special agent, knows what an "Order of Supervision" is. 
Further, they have never seen Form I-220B. 

7. The Applicant’s husband retired on October 3, 2006 from ICE. The Applicant started 
living with the Applicant as a common-law wife since the early part of 2003. 

8. Director Cowan and his staff totally disregarded our letters and E-mails. However, 
USCIS was quick to review our response and to deny my wife's AED.

Finally, a review of the Internet shows that USCIS is not consistent with the application 
process of the EAD. Hundreds or thousands of people complain that the process is not 

 
 
 
 
 
fair. I AGREE. 

Thank You! 

Sincerely 

Miguel Angel Contreras, PhD, CPP, CFE 
Contreras Associates International LLC 
3767 W 18th PL 
Yuma, Arizona 
(928) 329-1099 
License # PI 155327 
www.contrerasassociates.com 

Confidentiality Note: This e-mail is intended only for the person or entity to whom 
addressed and may contain information that is privileged, confidential or otherwise 
protected from disclosure. Dissemination, distribution or copying of this e-mail or the 
information herein by anyone other than the intended recipient, or an employee or agent 
responsible for delivering the message to the intended recipient, is prohibited. If you have 
received this e-mail in error, please advise the sender by return email and destroy the 
original message and all copies along with any attachment (s).  

No banners. No pop-ups. No kidding. 
Make My Way your home on the Web - http://www.myway.com