From: York, Amy [mailto:AmyYork@juf.org]  
Sent: Monday, April 02, 2007 11:15 AM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: DHS Docket No. USCIS 2006-0044 

Please find comments for Docket No. USCIS 2006-0044 attached and below. 

Sincerely, 

Amy M. York, Assistant Vice President 
Jewish Federation of Metropolitan Chicago 
1720 I Street, NW, 8th Floor 
Washington, DC  20006 
202.466.7090 
202.466.7092 fax 
amyyork@juf.org <mailto:amyyork@juf.org> 
www.juf.org <http://www.juf.org> 

                                                                                                            HIAS Chicago 

216 W. Jackson, Suite 700 
Chicago, Illinois 60606            

April 2, 2007 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 

US Citizenship and Immigration Services 

Department of Homeland Security 

111 Massachusetts Ave. NW, 3rd floor 

Washington, DC 20529 

RE: DHS Docket # USCIS-2006-0044 

Proposed rule - Adjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit Application and Petition Fee 
Schedule 

Dear Director: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On behalf of the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society of Chicago (HIAS Chicago) and the Jewish Federation of 
Metropolitan Chicago, we are writing to strongly oppose the increase to immigration and naturalization 
fees that the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) proposed on February 1, 2007. 

HIAS Chicago, a beneficiary agency of the Jewish Federation of Metropolitan Chicago, is a not-for-profit 
organization chartered in 1911, working in partnership with Jewish Child and Family Services. HIAS 
Chicago is a state-licensed agency, which is accredited by the U.S. Board of Immigration Appeals and the 
Council on Accreditation of Services for Families & Children, Inc. (COA). The Agency's board of directors 
is comprised of 28 dedicated community volunteer leaders, of whom one-third are former refugees and 
immigrants.  For more than 95 years, HIAS Chicago has been a leader in assisting people seeking refuge 
from desperate conditions through the immigration process. Their personal stories are HIAS Chicago's 
history.  

Trained multilingual HIAS Chicago staff provide pre- and post-migration services, which include: refugee 
processing; permanent residency preparation; indemnification services for Holocaust survivors; community 
outreach and information; and a full range of citizenship preparation classes and naturalization application 
assistance services. HIAS Chicago also has an active corps of community volunteers who assist in a variety 
of citizenship programs. 

Drawing from the strengths of our Jewish values, HIAS Chicago responds to the migration needs of 
refugees and immigrants from a myriad of countries and ethnic backgrounds who have come seeking 
refuge and a new life in the United States. Over the last two decades, HIAS Chicago has helped over 
14,000 refugees and immigrants through the resettlement process and ultimately to attain United States 
citizenship.  Through our community outreach efforts and active participation in projects funded by the 
State of Illinois and private donors, in 2006 alone, we assisted 1,514 immigrants from nearly every 
continent to complete citizenship applications. Most recently, among the largest groups served have been 
Hispanic, Polish/Eastern European, Asian and Middle Eastern immigrants. 

The need to adjust to lawful permanent residency and ultimately become a U.S. citizen remains a pressing 
issue for all immigrants and refugees. Indeed, President Bush in his State of the Union address "emphasized 
the value of upholding the nation's tradition that welcomes and 'assimilates' new arrivals." The USCIS' 
proposed fee increase is contrary to the spirit of this tradition and sends newcomers the wrong message at a 
time when they are seeking to embrace U.S. citizenship. Immigrants who apply for naturalization are eager 
to demonstrate their commitment to this country by becoming full participants in our nation's civic life. If 
they cannot become U.S. citizens because of an unfair fee hike, we may all lose an opportunity to 
strengthen and revitalize our democracy. 

Yet, the steep fee increases proposed by USCIS, which in some cases double the current fee, would 
absolutely put the goals of gaining permanent resident status, reuniting with family members, and 
ultimately becoming a US citizen out of reach for many. Immigrants who have come to America in 
accordance with our laws, learned English, qualified to become citizens and are willing to fight for our 
country should not be faced with this unreasonable financial barrier. 

The proposed fee for naturalization is of particular concern. As recently as 1998, the cost to apply for 
citizenship was $95. In 2002, after the Bush Administration took office, the costs (including biometric fees) 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
went up from $250 to $310. The total fees are now $400, a fourfold increase in the past eight years. Now 
USCIS is proposing a further increase of 70%, to $675. An immigrant working at a minimum-wage job 
would need to save three weeks' salary in order to pay this fee. 

Even more alarming is the proposed cost of filing for adjustment of status, which for many immigrants is 
the first step on the road leading to US citizenship. That application fee has increased from $130 in 1998 to 
$325 today, plus $75 for biometrics.  Under the proposed rule, the price will rise to $905 plus $80 for 
biometrics. In other words, it will cost nearly $1,000 for an immigrant to get a green card and start the five-
year countdown to citizenship. A minimum-wage immigrant worker would need to save a full month's pay 
to afford the proposed fee. For a family of four, adjustment applications reach a cost of $4000 or possibly 
more than one-third of one's annual income. 

Furthermore, while fee waivers remain available to certain naturalization applicants, the proposed rule 
removes green card applicants from eligibility for fee waivers altogether. Because individuals who adjust to 
lawful permanent residents with the status of "immigrant" require Affidavits of Support as part of their 
adjustment application, to prove that they will not become public charges, they are viewed under the 
proposed fee increase guidelines as ineligible for fee waivers. Those who are unable to afford the exorbitant 
cost will postpone or worse abandon applying for adjustment of status to lawful permanent resident and 
will remain less than full participants in the fabric of American society. 

The USCIS is directed to set fees at a level that will allow it to recover the costs of processing applications. 
However, agency policies and Congressional mandates are forcing newcomers' fees to cover massive 
expenditures for major infrastructure investments and process improvements that are driving fees to a level 
that immigrants simply cannot afford. For example, according to the USCIS, the agency needs to raise fees 
to improve the timeliness of background checks, modernize its outdated business systems by upgrading and 
enhancing its technological capabilities, improve USCIS facilities and enhance its personnel training and 
recruitment programs. The USCIS also announced that it intends to improve the average processing time 
for the Form N-400 naturalization application from seven to five months. 

We believe that our system for funding immigration services should be a partnership where applicants pay 
a reasonable fee for quality service. Thus, we call on the President and Congress to consider such 
recommendations as those proposed by the Migration Policy Institute, a non-partisan think tank devoted to 
the study of movements of people. The suggestions involve developing a structure where "fees pay only for 
the processing of applications, while Congressional appropriations will cover administrative and overhead 
costs or the expenses associated with new technology and structural improvement." 

In the past, USCIS has claimed that the fee increase is necessary to improve service, yet the agency has not 
taken steps to ensure that fees are commensurate with the value of services. USCIS pledges to improve 
application processing time by a mere 20% by the end of FY09, while it seeks to hike fees by an average of 
66% percent now.  

Furthermore, improving service is consistently defined by USCIS as reducing processing times; however, 
accessibility to live customer service assistance, and responsiveness and accountability from USICS is 
imperative to improving service. 
We strongly believe that no fee increase should be implemented without putting an end to USCIS' current 
practice of denying cases due to procedural problems. Many cases, for example, are denied because the 
Service claims that applicants have not responded to biometrics appointments allegedly made for them, for 
which the applicants have received no notification. While applicants are required to prove that they have 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
made timely applications to seek any service, USCIS is currently allowed to deny a benefit based upon 
their unsubstantiated claims that notices were sent out. Similarly, many cases are denied solely because the 
applicant mistakenly checked an incorrect box on an application. The Service refuses to reconsider these 
cases without additional fees. In such cases applicants pay inflated fees for no service at all. We believe it is 
unconscionable that UCSIC propose an increase of fees until these procedural denials are completely 
ended. 

Delays due to FBI security name checks is a prime example of the lack of service or accountability taken 
by USCIS, which insists that the delays are the responsibility of the FBI and out of its control, despite the 
fact that the FBI is paid by USCIS to provide this service. Some refugees who have escaped persecution 
and come to the United States as a safe haven, have applied for naturalization in a timely manner, but have 
been cut off from Supplemental Security Income (SSI) because of these delays and are left without a life 
line of financial support. 

In addition, USCIS equates improving service with introducing advanced technology that can support 
online application processes and internet access to records. Yet large numbers of immigrants who work for 
minimum wage jobs or are elderly or disabled, are frequently without internet access, would be unable to 
utilize this improved service. Without access to personal case assistance from USCIS for applicants and 
community based organizations, such as HIAS Chicago, improving service by reducing processing times 
and improving technology is superficial and unproductive. 

Most basically, immigration and citizenship are public goods that benefit our entire country and we, as a 
nation should help invest in this program. Immigrants bring their talent and hard work to our economy. 
They pay taxes and help revitalize our communities. In becoming citizens, immigrants demonstrate their 
strong commitment to their new home country by learning English, gaining knowledge about American 
history and government, and swearing allegiance to the United States. It is little wonder that newly 
naturalized citizens, eager to participate in our democracy, consistently vote at higher rates than other 
citizens. We should be encouraging immigrants to become part of our community by gaining legal status 
and becoming citizens, not setting up barriers that block their path and keep them out. 

For all these reasons, the proposal to increase immigration fees is misguided and counterproductive. We 
urge USCIS to reconsider this proposal, and to seek other sources of funding for its operations, rather than 
add more burdens on immigrants. Thank you for your consideration. 

Sincerely, 

Susan G. Wexler, LCSW                                        Pam Seubert 

Assistant Director                                                  Vice President 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                              
 
 
 
HIAS Chicago                                                        Jewish Federation of Metropolitan Chicago