-----Original Message----- 
From: charter morris [mailto:cmorris@olemiss.edu] 
Sent: Wednesday, February 28, 2007 4:31 PM 
To: OSComments 
Cc: cmorris@olemiss.edu; jcrobins@olemiss.edu; mjohan@olemiss.edu; 
twoodard@olemiss.edu 
Subject: USCIS-2006-0044 - Objection to new fee increases 

To Whom It May Concern: 

I am writing on behalf of the Office of International Programs at the 
University of Mississippi to express our objection to new fee increases 
with the USCIS under USCIS-2006-0044. 

As the International Programs Advisor for faculty and scholars, I 
process many forms on behalf of the University in support of our 
numerous international faculty and scholars. 

Under the new Carnegie classifications, the University of Mississippi 
is a comprehensive, research institution with high research activity.  
Our university is home to 20 national research centers, including the 
National Centers for Natural Products Research, Physical Acoustics, and 
Computational Hydroscience.  The research done at the University of 
Mississippi's main campus brings over $100 million in grants each year; 
the Medical Campus in Jackson also attracts another $100 million in 
research grants.  The international researchers and faculty are key to 
the function and success of the university.  Our research centers rely 
on international collaboration and attract many researchers, 
professors, and scholars to the institution.  The impact that the 
international community has on the institution is significant. 

The new fee increases will hinder the University of Mississippi's 
ability to attract prominent researchers and needed faculty and 
instructors.  Some departments with limited budgets, such as Modern 
Languages, will not be able to afford to support H-1Bs or Permanent 
Residency for future instructors and faculty.  This means that the 
University of Mississippi will no longer be able to offer the same 
level of quality education to its students. 

Since the beginning of the fiscal year on July 1, 2006, the University 
of Mississippi has hosted 250 international faculty and researchers on 
J-1s, H-1Bs, TNs, O-1s, and PRs.  The actual monetary impact on the 
University of Mississippi based on the fee increases could be as much 
as $20,000 in additional filing fees for I-129s and I-140s alone.  The 
additional cost to the international faculty and researchers and their 
families who are seeking Permanent Residency using the I-485 would be 
around $50,000, not to mention the many additional thousands of dollars 
for EAD Cards and Advanced Parole Documents.  Again, for many 
departments and many of the international faculty and researchers, 
these fees may prove to be one obstacle too many, and we may lose 
valuable minds to other institutions and to other areas of the world 
who are developing stronger research facilities such as the European 
Union, UK, Australia, China, and New Zealand. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We ask that you reconsider the proposed fee increases.  A modest 
increase in fees to cover additional expenses is to be expected, but 
the near doubling of some fees will devastate our institution's ability 
to function as a competitive research institution. 

Thank you for your time. 

Sincerely, 

Charter Morris 
International Programs Advisor - Faculty & Scholars Office of 
International Programs University of Mississippi 
331 Martindale 
University, MS 38677-1848 
USA 

(662) 915-1558 
(662) 915-7486 fax 
cmorris@olemiss.edu 

Mississippi Association of International Educators, Chair 
NAFSA: National Association of International Educators - Region VII, 
Mississippi Representative