March 29, 2007 

Richard Sloan, Director  
Regulatory Management Division 
US Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Avenue NW 
Washington DC  20529 

RE:  Adjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit Application 
and Petition Fee Schedule –Docket number USCIS2006-0044 

Dear Mr. Sloan: 

The Lutheran Adoption Network is a national collaboration of 29 Lutheran 
social ministry organizations that provide a full range of international 
adoption services to children and families. Lutheran Adoption Network 
members are deeply concerned about the impact that the proposed 
application fee increases by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) will have on the children and families we serve in our adoption 
programs. 

We can understand the need for an adjustment in USCIS fee schedules for 
some of the reasons outlined in the Federal Register, namely to improve 
processing times and service delivery to consumers, to enhance operations, 
upgrade and maintain information technology, enhance training programs, 
conduct policy evaluation and research, as well as adjust for inflation.  
However, the fee increases for three adoption-related petitions (I 
600A/600, I824, and N600/600K) are so extreme that we have to request 
these proposed increases be re-considered and evaluated more carefully.  
Lutheran Adoption Network believes that the fee increases have the potential 
to discourage many Americans from considering adoption from other 
countries due to financial burden and thus preventing vulnerable, orphan 
children from finding permanency. 

In Section IX, Proposed Fee Adjustments, the filing fee for the I600A/600 
(Petition to Classify an Orphan as an Immediate Relative) would increase 
from $545 to $670.  This petition has to be accompanied by federal 
fingerprints (biometrics) which are going from $70 to $80, so the actual total 
cost for a 2 parent family to apply for USCIS approval to adopt a foreign born 
child would become $830.00.   For many years, adoption service providers 
have noted and complained about the inconsistency with expiration dates for 
federal fingerprinting (15 months) and approval to adopt (18 months).  With 
processing times for adoptions in MANY countries increasing and now taking 
an average of 20 months, there are many Americans who are required to re-

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
file both the I600A and be re-fingerprinted before their adoptions are 
completed.  With this proposed fee increase, US citizen families will be 
required to pay their own government an additional $1650.00 for paperwork. 

Many prospective adoptive families also are required to file the I-824, 
Request for Action on an Approved Petition, in order to have the Embassy 
location that receives their USCIS approval changed. In the past this was 
known as “cabling” the approval to another Embassy if the family decided to 
adopt from a different country than the one specified on the 600A petition. 
We doubt that cables are still sent overseas. For this fee to increase from 
$200 to $340 only adds an additional financial burden on prospective 
adoptive parents, and with current technology it seems unreasonable to pay 
this much more simply to have USCIS officers send an email or fax. 

While there are many justifications and rationales presented in the Federal 
Register for raising application/petition fees, the table describing the 
projected volume increases for FY 2008 is significant to note.  The change in 
the volume for I600A/600 forms is only 101, the change for I824s is 
projected at 680, and most interesting there is zero (0) projected increase 
for filings of N600/600K forms.  However, the fee increase for this petition is 
over 50%, from a current fee of $255 to $460.  The N600, Application for a 
Certificate of Citizenship, seems redundant and prohibitively expensive when 
you consider the intent of the Child Citizenship Act of 2000; to make 
internationally adopted children “automatic citizens” upon entry into the 
United States or after finalization of their adoptions.  While the children are 
automatic citizens under the provisions of this law, their parents need to pay 
$460 to USCIS in order to receive documented proof of their children’s legal 
status. 

In conclusion, Lutheran Adoption Network urges USCIS to reconsider the 
proposed fee increase’s impact on orphaned children and adoptive parents.  
We ask that USCIS work with members of Congress to help resolve the 
disparity in adjudication costs versus revenues collected. USCIS must create 
an alternative and permanent funding stream that will support its operations. 
Seeking appropriations from Congress that supplement what USCIS collects 
in fees is the only realistic way for USCIS to operate effectively without 
imposing undue hardship upon prospective adoptive families. We support the 
efforts of USCIS in modernizing its infrastructure, reducing backlogs and 
adjudication times, and ensuring that all security background checks are 
completed accurately and efficiently. Nevertheless, we do not believe the 
expenses should be passed off onto USCIS customers alone.  

Thank you for your time and consideration of our concerns. 

Sincerely, 

Susan Myers 
Director, Lutheran Adoption Network