From: Joel & Pam Kaiser [mailto:kaisers@airadv.net]  
Sent: Saturday, March 31, 2007 10:15 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: USCIS 2006-0044 

To Whom It May Concern: 

This is in regards to the increased fees as proposed by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services.  I want to express my concern as a parent who is in the process of adopting 
internationally.  While I understand that some increase in fees may be necessary to meet 
budget needs, the proposed fee increases seem excessive.   While many things in life are a 
luxury and for one’s own benefit, adopting internationally is not a luxury.  It is a sacrifice 
that many people make to bring a child into a loving family . . . even those that already have 
families.  We have 4 biological children and could have more if we so chose.   Our decision to 
adopt a child internationally was one that we felt led to do . . . to provide a child a home that 
she would otherwise not have.  We understand the various costs that adoption entails, 
including the governmental fees.  We willingly are saving and fundraising for the costs of 
adoption . . . we feel that it is worth it.  Please now do not burden adoptive families with 
excessive costs . . . in addition to all the other fee’s that we are paying. 

It is especially discouraging to families like ours that face the likely possibility of having to 
pay the fee’s 2 or more times as we wait for our child.  We feel that to be burdened with 
the fee’s twice or more is unnecessary and an undue hardship.  Lengthening the time frames 
before the paperwork needs to be renewed would help the situation tremendously.   

Please consider lowering the fee increases that have been proposed.  Please also consider 
lowering the costs when forms have to be renewed, due to long waiting times to complete 
adoptions.  Our family, and so many other families like ours, is trying to improve the life of a 
child.  Please help us do that without making it more difficult to fund the adoption.   

Thank you for your time and consideration, 
Pam Kaiser