ACORN

Dr. Emilio Gonzalez
Director, USCIS
Department of Homeland Security
20 Massachusetts Avenue, NW
Washington, DC 20529

Dear Dr. Gonzalez,

On behalf of San Diego ACORN members, I write to express my concern  with the United
States Citizenship and Immigration Services'  (USCIS) proposed rule that would
significantly raise fees for naturalization and immigration applications.

As a nation of immigrants, we should be making it easier for qualifying  immigrants to
become  Americans, not harder -  especially if they have played by the rules and have
taken  all the proper steps needed to become  lawful  US citizens.  The fee  increases
proposed  by USCIS are prohibitive for many working families. Under the current
proposal, an application for permanent residency would increase from $325 to $905  -
nearly a 300%  increase. In addition, a citizenship application (N-400) would virtually
double to $595, and fees for fingerprinting would increase  14%. For example, a family of
four would have to pay approximately  $2,430  in application and processing  fees to
become legal citizens of the U.S.  This is in addition to the English and civics classes
many immigrants need to take in order to prepare for their naturalization exams.

We should not discourage hard-working immigrants from  completing the naturalization
process.  Rather than raising naturalization  fees for the sixth time since  1988, we urge
you to call on Congress to provide sufficient  appropriated funds to ensure that citizenship
remains an attainable goal for current and future immigrants. With the help of
appropriated  funds, USCIS can make the proper changes needed to bring immigration
services into the modern era without preventing eligible immigrants from  obtaining the
American dream

If you have any comments or questions please contact

Sincerely,

Name: W/M  ^
Address: 

/C\  o

%^%^5 

j

5-ff  <3d  <^

Association of Community Organizations for  Reform Now
National Office: 739 8th Street  S.E.,  Washington, D.C.  20003 • 202-547-2500  FAX 202-546-2483