-----Original Message----- 
From: Barry Johnson [mailto:bjohnson21@fuse.net] 
Sent: Thursday, February 22, 2007 10:28 AM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: docket number USCIS-2006-0044-0001 

I am writing to oppose the fee increase. 

Currently the 171 expires after 18 months.  Once that expires proposed 
adoptive parents must re-apply, having to pay all new fees.   
This to me seems too much.  Why cannot the adoptive parents re-submit 
an application for re-newal that addresses any changes that have 
occured since the original approval.  The parents adoption agency is 
responsible for tracking these changes and preparing home study 
addendums.  I fully support renewed background checks, as this is very 
important.  However the vast majority of adoptive parents do not 
materially change in 18 months to require a whole new application to be 
needed. 
An application renewal, would then require less time to process by CIS 
staff, and thus could result in a lower fee for the parents. 

As for the finger print increase, these expire after 15 months.  You 
must have current finger prints to apply for the 171.  Since the 
expiration dates are 3 months different, this creates confusion among 
adoptive parents trying to keep all the dates current. 
Also, why is it necessary to be re-fingerprinted when the 15 months 
expire.  Our fingerprints are scanned into the system, so that they can 
be run against the FBI files.  Our fingerprints do not change, why not 
simply re-run the prints that are already stored.  I support the 
renewed background checks, but having to repeat something that was 
already done is duplicative and unnecessary.  The parents could then be 
charged an administrative fee to re-run the prints, again saving time 
for CIS staff. 
This having to go be re-fingerprinted in my case is a real barrier.  I 
live in Kentucky, about 15 miles from the Cincinnati CIS office. 
However since I live in Kentucky I have to drive to Louisville (100 
miles one way) to be finger printed.  This is a real burned in our 
case. 
Since everything is computerized, it seems simple to be finderprinted 
in Cincy, and our prints sent electronically to Louisville for 
processing. 

Thanks you for the opportunity to comment 

Barry Johnson 
Alexandria, KY