From: mail.relay@mailmanager.net [mailto:mail.relay@mailmanager.net] On Behalf Of Susan 
Lo 
Sent: Wednesday, March 28, 2007 6:28 PM 
To: OS Comments 
Subject: DHS Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044 

Susan Lo 
2251 Florin Road, Suite 104 
Sacramento, CA 95822-4478 

March 28, 2007 

OS Comments 

Dear OS Comments: 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
US Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Ave. NW, 3rd floor 
Washington DC 20529. 

RE:  DHS Docket # USCIS-2006-0044 

Proposed rule — Adjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit 
Application and Petition Fee Schedule 

I, Susan Lo, am deeply concerned about the proposed USCIS fee increase 
referenced above. 

I work for Hmong Women's Heritage Association, a non profit organization 
serving over 1000 Hmong clients here in Sacramento California.  Most of 
our clients are new refugees who has arrived into the United States within 
the past three years.  Some have filled for their permanent resident cards 
but have been denied or their case is pending, due to unknown factors.  
The price increase will directly affect the Hmong community here in 
Sacramento.  

We are deeply troubled by the sheer size and scope of the fee increase. 
USCIS plans to increase citizenship fees from $400 ($330 application fee 
plus $70 fingerprinting fee) to $675 ($595 application fee plus $80 
fingerprinting fee), an increase of 69 percent.  It would also raise fees 
for 37 other immigration and naturalization petitions and applications at 
an average increase of 66 percent.  Furthermore, it appears that the 
increase will take place at once rather than being spread out over a 
period of time. 

Rapid fee hikes of such magnitude will have a disproportionate and 
detrimental impact on the Asian American community. As the following 
figures reflect, Asian Americans constitute a significant portion of 
USCIS's customer base. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-39% of people who naturalized in 2005 were born in Asia. 
Five of the top ten countries of birth for new U.S. citizens are Asian 
(Philippines, India, Vietnam, People's Republic of China, and Korea).  
-36% of people who became lawful permanent residents (LPRs) in 2005 were 
born in Asia.  -Five of the top ten countries of birth for new LPRs are 
Asian (India, China, Philippines, Vietnam, and Korea).  -Significant 
numbers of asylees and refugees came from Asian countries such as Laos (16 
percent of refugees admitted in 2005) and China (21 percent of asylum 
granted in 2005). 

The massive and abrupt fee increase proposed by USCIS will delay or 
prevent Asian Americans from becoming U.S. citizens, reuniting with their 
families, contributing their knowledge and skills to our economy, and 
settling into our society after having escaped persecution. 

-A family of four LPRs who want to apply for U.S. citizenship at the same 
time will now have to have $2,700 at their disposal in order to achieve 
their American dream together. 

-A family of four which has been granted asylum in the U.S. and is 
applying for permanent residence will now need $3,620 in hand in order to 
apply for permanent residence. 

-Furthermore, asylees applying for permanent residence will be ineligible 
to apply for fee waivers, no matter how dire their financial situation may 
be, because USCIS intends to categorically eliminate fee waivers for I-485 
applications for adjustment as a part of the fee increase. 

-The proposal would also prohibit U.S. citizens and LPRs from requesting 
fee waivers on I-130 relative petitions on the grounds that the 
petitioners must file affidavits of support to show that they can support 
their beneficiaries should they be unable to do so themselves.  

Many of HWHA clients will not be able to afford the new prices.  They 
cannot even afford the price right now.  They save every month barely 
scraping enough money to apply for their permanent resident cards.  They 
are low-income families.  This will affect their life and their families 
deeply.  What will happen when they cannot afford the application fees?  
What will families do? 

The fee hike and the blanket ban on fee waivers on certain applications 
and petitions would be particularly burdensome to the roughly 12 percent 
of the Asian American community which lives below the poverty level. 

Given the speed, scope and scale of the proposed fee increase, we believe 
that USCIS customers must receive faster, greater, and more concrete 
improvements in processing times and customer service. The fee increase 
proposal itself does not appear to set forth any concrete targets for 
improvement in these areas. 

Finally, we believe that certain improvements which the USCIS wants to 
finance through the fee increase would be better addressed through the 
normal budget and appropriations process. For instance, while we support 
USCIS's efforts to improve its fraud detection capacity and to modernize 
its business and technological infrastructure, we do not believe that 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
immigrants and their families should bear the sole burden for these 
efforts. 

In conclusion, we urge USCIS to reconsider the proposed fee increase.  We 
hope that the agency will work with immigrant communities, and with 
Congress, to develop a functioning, effective immigration system that will 
benefit our country. 

Sincerely, 

Susan Lo