From: Cary Smith [mailto:crmexico2@yahoo.com]  
Sent: Friday, March 16, 2007 2:37 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: disgusted by raise in USCIS fees. 

We dreamed of being able to go  back to Mexico on 
vacation to visit family as we established our lives 
in the United States.  We were sure to do everything 
legally and took care in hiring a lawyer and spending 
all of our money on immigration and lawyer fees.  

We have now been waiting since 2005 for permanent 
residency.  We wait anxiously knowing that as we are 
not allowed to reenter the US after leaving, we are 
unable to see our family.  

We are legal aliens.  We have followed all the rules. 
We have paid all the money.  We have clean records. 

Yet, somehow, it is taking this long to do a name 
check.  In the meantime, we have no way to know what 
is going on and check the mailbox daily praying that 
the Green Card has arrived.  We are stuck, waiting, 
with no one to help and fees never stopping.  

As our papers take longer and longer to go through, we 
pay more and more fees for renewals, not to mention 
having to pay our lawyer for forms that need to be 
done because they are often too complicated to fill 
out on our own and we are scared we will miss 
something on the form and have it be delayed. 

The expense of immigration has been very high 
emotionally and mentally.  We are in a state of 
anticipation with difficulty being able to move on 
with our lives because our lives now revolve around 
this card that we have been waiting for since 2005. 

We have done everything legally.  

It is not fair that those of us who work hard to go 
through the citizenship process have to wait so long 
without any answers.  

I speak on behalf of all the people who are working 
hard to get by and praying that their families in far 
away countries survive long enough that they may 
return home for a visit and a hug.  I speak on behalf 
of the people who work legally and try to do 
everything the right way.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We should not be punished for this by paying even 
higher fees.  As it is, we are in a state of panic 
about the fees that come pouring in as our case sits 
pending on someone's desk.  

If the USCIS raises their fees 66%, I don't know how 
we will pay them.  I will, however, hold them 
accountable for making the process then 66%  more 
efficient.  That would only seem fair for those of us 
left so long waiting.  

Right now, the USCIS seems to be taking their time as 
hard working, law abiding people await.  It must be a 
nice paycheck when you can charge a person to renew 
with large fees yet not do anything on their case.  

We at least have the right to know what is going on.  
We have the right to receive the services and papers 
we have paid for when we have no record and are doing 
the immigration process the legal way.  
If you raise the USCIS fees, I will be expecting much 
faster services.  

Perhaps you could consider not making people pay fees 
to renew when their cases sit waiting on someone's 
desk.  Some of us are working several jobs to pay for 
this. 

This increase in fees will be detrimental to hard 
working, law abiding and struggling people in this 
country who are going through the immigration process. 
 The process alone is so complicated that most people 
already have to pay for a lawyer which is incredibly 
expensive, plus all the fees and renewals on top of 
this. 

It is one thing to charge and give results.  It is 
another thing to charge and leave someone's case 
pending for years when they have no charges against 
them and no record. 

We are human beings.  We are working to get by.  We 
are immigrants here in the United States legally. 
Help us. 

-I expect the services I have paid for in a timely 
fashion... 2 years is too long without anyone even 
bothering to explain.  Even our Senator's office calls 
the FBI, but no one tells us anything but that the 
case is pending.  We have spent THOUSANDS.