Jennifer Doerrie 
625-A Third Street 
Clovis, CA 93612-1193 

March 26, 2007 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Ave.  NW, 3d Floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

 Director, Regulatory Management Division: 

As an attorney practicing in the field of immigration law for nine years, 
much of that time in non-profit settings, I have considerable experience 
with the immigration process.  I am concerned by the Service's proposal to 
radically increase its fees.  

Questionable Calculations 

The premises underlying the calculations shown in the Activity-Based 
Costing analysis in the proposed rulemaking appear to be flawed.  Table 9 
lists processing times for forms in locations that have no jurisdiction to 
process those form types.  For instance, local offices no longer have 
jurisdiction to process Forms I-129 (.09 hours listed), I-129F (4.98 hours 
listed), I-140 (2.00 hours listed), I-539 (1.32 hours listed) and I-829 
(4.45 hours listed), but local office completion rates are listed for 
those form types.  Conversely, Forms N-470 are filed and processed at 
local offices, but 1.91 hours is listed as a completion rate for Service 
Centers.  

At Section X, the Service discusses a threefold increase in completion 
rates for a number of application types, claiming that most of the 
increases are "associated with the additional time devoted to the 
expansion of background checks."  This makes no sense.  Are checks being 
run on both the I-140s and I-485s when they are filed concurrently?  From 
a cost and efficiency standpoint, why is the Service conducting background 
checks on non-concurrently filed I-140 petitions?  What can the Service do 
with that information, since the I-140 confers no benefit until an 
adjustment of status or immigrant visa application is filed?   Is it 
turned over to law enforcement?  If that is the case, why is that check 
not being funded as a law enforcement activity since, again, there is no 
immigration-related reason to run a check on an I-140?  

Indeed, my understanding is that many of these background checks are IBIS 
checks.  It has been more than five years since IBIS checks were 
introduced across the board to filings.  Surely the Service has found a 
more efficient means to conduct them now than it used in the initial, post 
9/11, process?  If so, a threefold increase in completion rates for 
I-140s, I-129Fs or I-751s hardly seems accurate.  If not, is it not well 
past time that the Service found a more efficient way to handle these 
checks? 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, the data for "Make Determination" costs do not appear to 
correspond in any logical manner with the Completion Rate data.  For 
instance, why are the "Make Determination" costs for I-360s calculated at 
$2,268 when the Completion Rates are not significantly higher than for 
other form types?  As another example, why are I-765 "Make Determination" 
costs significantly higher than I-90 costs, while I-765 completion rates 
are much lower than I-90 completion rates?  Why are I-102 and I-129 "Make 
Determination" costs the same when their completion rates are very 
different (as would be expected for these vastly different adjudication 
jobs)? 

Also, there is some question as to whether the Service is fully accounting 
for its other revenues.  It dismisses as a "smaller, specific" account the 
monies received through the anti-fraud fee.  However, the agency's 2006 
budget request estimated annual revenues from this fee at $44 million.  
The proposal requests from the Immigration Examination Fee Account (IFEA) 
a sum of  more than $31 million to fund the Fraud Detection and National 
Security Division without mentioning the monies from the anti-fraud fee.  
Where has that money gone? 

Fee Waivers 

The Service announces in the rulemaking its intention to waive fees on a 
blanket basis for VAWA I-360 petitions.  While, at first blush, this seems 
to be an admirable and compassionate move, further examination shows it to 
be a cruel hoax.  Even as the Service proposes to waive these fees, it 
proposes to eliminate any possibility of fee waiver for adjustment of 
status applications.  Thus, while waiving a $375 fee, the proposal would 
foreclose all possibility of waiver of the higher, $905 fee (plus $805/905 
per person for any children involved) for this most vulnerable group of 
applicants.  Having represented well over 500 VAWA applicants in nine 
years, I am confident it would be better to leave the VAWA fee waiver as 
discretionary and leave in place the possibility of waiver for the 
adjustment application.  Otherwise, relief will become out of the reach of 
most of the people VAWA was enacted to protect. 

Combining the EAD and Advance Parole Fees with the Adjustment Fee 

The Service proposes to include in the adjustment of status fee increase 
the fees for employment authorization and advance parole applications.  
However, not all I-485 applicants wish to obtain these ancillary benefits. 
 For instance, many minor children do not request employment authorization 
and have no need for such a benefit.  Similarly, individuals currently 
holding valid H-1B or L-1 status frequently do not need employment 
authorization or advance parole, as they are permitted to work and travel 
using their existing nonimmigrant status. Additionally, the Service 
appears to continue to take the position that individuals who have applied 
under section 245(i) and/or are subject to unlawful presence bars cannot 
travel without triggering the bars.  Thus, these people would not want 
advance parole.  It is neither fair nor sensible to require people who 
will not be using a benefit to pay for it. 

Activities Belonging under Appropriated Funds 

Despite what seems to be the Service's impression to the contrary, the 
statute does not require that it fund all its operations via fees. Under 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INA section 286(m), "fees for providing adjudication and naturalization 
services may be set at a level that will ensure recovery of the full costs 
of providing all such services." 

The authorizing statute limits the fee-funding scope to "providing 
adjudication and naturalization services" and administering the fees.  It 
does not authorize fees to cover other activities. Many of the costs 
anticipated by this fee regulation do not belong in the fee account.  The 
Service has chosen to expand its mission beyond adjudication and 
naturalization and enter into the realm of law enforcement.  When the 
Department of Homeland Security was established, Congress consciously and 
deliberately separated the Department's adjudicative arm (USCIS) from its 
enforcement arm (what has become ICE and CBP).  The intent was to keep the 
functions separate.  Even if the agency has strayed from that intent in 
its operations, at a minimum the funding should be kept separate. 

The Service should seek appropriated funds at a level sufficient to pay 
for the additional services and processes that, in turn, benefit everyone. 
 For example, increased payments to the FBI for fingerprint, name, and 
security checks which benefit national security;  processing of Freedom of 
Information Act requests, for which every other government agency receives 
appropriated funds; agency administration with nine headquarters offices 
and field locations worldwide; and information technology enhancements, 
should not be borne by applicants alone.  In addition, funding for 
Internal Security and Investigative Operations for the investigation of 
misconduct of Federal and contract employees should not benefit from user 
fees.  

Impact of the Fee Increases 

The fee increases will effectively impose a means test on the ability of 
immigrants to attain U.S. citizenship, which is contrary to our national 
values.  The United States is built on the principal of equality and 
inherent value of each individual, both native born and immigrant.  We 
need immigrants to sustain our economic system and invest in the American 
dream, and we should not be erecting monetary barriers to their achieving 
U.S. residency and citizenship. 

Fee Increases Not Justified by Service Levels 

The immigration process continues to be plagued by inconsistent and 
inefficient adjudication.  These problems result in part from the agency's 
inability to issue regulations on substantive issues that would provide 
adjudicators with clear guidance.  Indeed, since its inception, USCIS has 
been unable to produce more than one or two regulations that were not 
related to revenues or required by judicial order, despite a multitude of 
laws that scream out for regulatory implementation.  With this kind of 
failure at the policy level, how can one expect fair and consistent 
adjudication at the field level?  

Filing an application or petition at the Service is a gamble, with offices 
and adjudicators all following their own rules.  There is no consistency 
in adjudication or transparency of standards or results.  These factors 
cause significant inefficiency in the agency's adjudication process, 
resulting in costs that are unnecessarily high.  No amount of technical 
innovation and no increased amount of revenue will overcome an 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
unwillingness to adjudicate on a level playing field.  There should be no 
fee increase until the Service is able to articulate a detailed and 
concrete plan which demonstrates a real commitment to the elimination of 
inconsistent and hostile adjudication.  Such a plan should not only 
include rulemaking and training, but tracking of adjudications and a 
system of accountability. 

Also, significant numbers of I-485 and N-400 cases have been awaiting 
security clearances for years.  The backlog on obtaining these clearances 
continues to increase, preventing larger and larger numbers of people from 
obtaining lawful permanent residence or U.S. citizenship.  And, recently, 
the Service announced that it no longer will expedite clearances when 
mandamus actions are filed on these long-stalled applications.  This, in 
turn, will increase overall costs for the Service in the form of costs for 
defending these suits (including paying EAJA fees).   

In sum, the Service has failed to justify these fee increases and the 
whole proposal should be withdrawn and reconsidered. 

Sincerely, 

Jennifer Doerrie