From: NELSON CLARK III [mailto:nmssclarkfamily@verizon.net]  
Sent: Monday, April 02, 2007 10:47 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: [Docket No: USCIS-2006-0044];[FR Doc: E7-01631];[Page 4887-4915]; Immigration: 
Benefit application fee schedule adjustment 
Importance: High 

This is in reference to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, and docket number (USCIS-
2006- 0044):  

Regarding the fee increases associated with international adoption as follows: 

*N-600 fee will go from $255 to $420  
*I-600A Petition to Classify Orphan as an Immediate Relative fee will go from $545 to $670   
*N-565 Application for Replacement of Certificate of Citizenship (used for name changes) will go 
from $220 to$380 
*Biometric Services (fingerprints) will go from $70 per person to $80 per person 

My wife and I want to make our voices heard in order to keep the cost of international 
adoption from increasing unnecessarily.  To sum it up, both my wife and I worked in the 
mortgage industry for many years.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were chartered by the 
Federal Government to help Americans realize the “American Dream” of being able to 
buy a home in U.S.A.- hence came various efforts known as “affordable housing” 
initiatives in the mortgage industry and the like.   

Similarly another “American Dream” is to have a family.  Many Americans, including 
my wife and I, have sought this other very important “American Dream” through 
international adoption.  If the U.S. Government (U.S.C.I.S., etc.) keeps raising the costs 
to American families to adopt- these rising costs will close these doors for many 
Americans desiring the dream of having children and a family.  Please help keep the 
American dream of having a family alive and affordable for all Americans and not only 
prevent the adoption costs noted in docket number USCIS-2006-044 from going up- but 
please drive these costs down- just like the mortgage industry has tried to do by taking 
steps to make housing affordable for all Americans in our great country!   

Here is an idea related to this topic: many of us adopting internationally do not 
understand why some of these forms “expire” and we are forced to pay for them all over 
again as though we never completed them in the first place.  Often times for reasons that 
are out of our control internationally, the adoption processes get delayed overseas.  The 
delays- again not because of anything Americans are doing- cause certain forms (I-600A) 
and Biometric Services (fingerprints) to expire and we are then forced to do them all over 
again at the same or now higher costs (if the proposed rate increases go through).  
“Update fees”- fees at much lower costs than what was originally paid for the I-600A or 
Biometric Services- would seem more reasonable… for instance- my fingerprints are not 
going to change so why do I have to pay for them again at the same cost?  Better yet- 
why not offer extensions on the I-600A and Biometric Services at no additional cost to 
Americans trying to adopt when a third party (such as an Adoption Agency) can verify 
for the Government (USCIS) that delays in the adoption process are not related to the 
American family trying to adopt?  Etc.   

 
 
  
 
 
 
Thank you,  

Nelson & Maria Clark Family 
229 Asbury Road 
Winchester, VA  22060 
Phone: 540-667-0643