April 2, 2007 

Director 
Regulatory Management Division 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Avenue, N.W.  
Third Floor 
Washington, D.C. 20529 

Re:  DHS Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044 

Dear Director:  

The University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco campus is home to one of the 
nation’s  preeminent  medical  schools  and  to  internationally  renowned  medical  research 
facilities.  UCSF also encompasses 11 research institutes, 1,500 laboratories, more than 
2,000 ongoing research projects and a new library whose state-of-the-art computing and 
communications  infrastructure  is  making  it  a  21st-century  temple  of  knowledge 
management. 

UCSF  began  in  San  Francisco  in  1864  as  the  Toland  Medical  College  and  became 
affiliated with the University of California, San Francisco in 1873.  In 1898, the medical 
school  opened  its  facilities  on  Parnassus  Street,  which  today  serves  as  UCSF’s  central 
campus  and  hospital.    UCSF  is  the  only  campus  in  the  University  of  California,  San 
Francisco’s ten-campus system that is orientated exclusively to the health sciences.  

UCSF employs over 18,000 faculty and staff.  Among our faculty are three Nobel Prize 
winners  in  the  last  10  years,  23  members  of  the  National  Academy  of  Sciences,  59 
members  of  the  Institute  of  Medicine,  34  fellows  of  the  American  Academy  of  Arts  & 
Sciences, and many recipients of prestigious national and international awards such as the 
Lasker  Award,  California  Scientist  of  the  Year,  AAMC  Distinguished  Teacher  Award, 
McArthur Award, NIH Director’s Pioneer Award, Gairdner Foundation Award, and the 
Australia Award.  UCSF ranks first for active patents in the University of California, San 
Francisco system and ranks fourth nationally for NIH funding.  The School of Medicine 
is consistently ranked among the top 10 medical schools in the United States.   

I appreciate that we have the opportunity to comment on the proposed rule the U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) issued on February 1, 2007.  In this 
action, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) is calling for increased fees for its 
immigration and naturalization services, as part of a larger effort DHS is calling 
"Building an Immigration Service for the 21st Century."  

 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
We pledge to work with the DHS, and other federal agencies that are involved to improve 
the current systems for processing visa applications and employment-based petitions, but 
of course we want fees to remain as affordable as possible.  

While we understand the Department’s rationale for proposing revenue increases, we are 
concerned about the negative impact this proposal will have on students and scholars, and 
we are unconvinced that the promises made in this notice can be realized in a timely 
manner. If we knew the higher fees were going to resolve the backlog our students and 
scholars often experience, then perhaps an increase to pay for improvements might be 
worth the trade. The problem is, however, that the proposed rule does not outline an 
overall strategic plan for improvements, with measurable benchmarks and tangible goals 
for implementing the needed upgrades, or a specific timeline or completion schedule to 
assure interested parties that these improvements will actually be accomplished.  

Background 
The University of California, San Francisco cares about the safety of our students and 
scholars, and we firmly believe colleges and universities must accept their key role in 
keeping our nation safe from those who would cause our people harm. The higher 
education community has already demonstrated its willingness to do this, through its 
substantial investment in the personnel, computer hardware and software needed to 
assure efficient and full compliance with SEVIS. 

The University has at its very core the need for the free exchange of ideas and knowledge 
between students and scholars in this country, with their international counterparts, who 
make our universities interesting and diverse, and who contribute greatly to our research, 
development, innovation and training, particularly in STEM fields and critical-need 
languages, as well as in health, education, business, energy, and other disciplines.   

We can only achieve our goals for excellence and remain globally competitive through 
partnerships with institutions around the world and with the free exchange of 
people, ideas, and resources. While we can certainly understand DHS’s need for 
increased operating funds, we need to look at the cost and benefits of a robust system of 
international education and foreign exchange, and consider in that analysis the value of 
increased global understanding and international good will that will result. 

Rather, we believe the proposed fee increases will act as a disincentive for talented 
international students and highly trained scholars to study and work in the United States. 
Together with the disadvantages of perceived and actual visa delays, security clearances, 
and barriers to employment opportunities in the U.S. (e.g. the H-1B cap), these proposed 
fee increases are viewed by the international student and scholar community as further 
evidence of the United States being unwelcoming of the world’s best and brightest talent.   

Prior to outlining UCSF’s specific recommendation in response to the DHS proposal, I 
offer the following general concerns: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(cid:131)  The University of California, San Francisco is concerned that without a more 
clearly defined work plan, there is a substantial risk that increased fees will be 
imposed, but students and scholars will continue to face delays and complications 
in seeking the services of DHS.  

(cid:131)  A proposal for such large fee increases seems poorly timed in light of the 
expressed wishes of several agencies to support the value of international 
education as a key goal for U.S. foreign policy and competitiveness. In recent 
years, there have been several examples of meetings, summits, and reports 
involving Cabinet-level officials, all highlighting the need for the U.S. to compete 
more effectively in the global contest for talent. In fact, several of our Chancellors 
were involved in a summit of higher education leaders in January 2006, which 
was convened to discuss public diplomacy, international exchange, and 
international education strategies for the future.  

Proposed Fee Increases: While the University of California, San Francisco understands 
that federal agencies may need additional funds and the nation is in a time of fiscal 
constraints, it is not good public policy to raise prices for benefits out of the reach of 
those who qualify for and desire them.   

Most of the fee increases will affect students and scholars at our campuses, and while 
there are some offsets, they are limited and not that helpful. For example, the proposed 
increase in the I-485 fee (from $325 to up to $905) is partly offset by the fact that it is 
accompanied by the elimination of additional filing fees for work authorization and for 
permission to re-enter after traveling abroad. On the other hand, the inclusion of those 
fees in the proposed new fee means that even those who do not expect to need those 
benefits will still pay for them. 

It is also important to note that these fees are in addition to the required data collection 
and fraud prevention fee, which is not part of the fee schedule, and the premium 
processing fee, which will remain at $1,000. 

The University of California, San Francisco believes there are other ways DHS could 
improve its efficiency and save money without the need to raise all the fees as well. For 
example, Designated School Officers (DSO) could be authorized to approve Optional 
Practical Training (OPT) in accordance with agency requirements. This used to be 
possible, and schools are authorized to approve Curricular Practical Training.  Further, 
with the Student and Exchange Visitor Information System (SEVIS) now fully in place, it 
would be easy to devolve this responsibility back onto the schools.   

Fee Waivers:  The University of California, San Francisco recommends that DHS 
provide clear guidelines regarding eligibility for fee waivers, and allow transparency in 
the process so institutions can explain the criteria to students and advise those eligible 
about their options. 

Congress has authorized USCIS to provide services to eligible applicants and petitioners 
who can establish that they are unable to pay the fee(s). In many cases, students do not 

 
 
 
 
 
 
have jobs and experience economic “hardship,” but they are unaware of the eligibility 
criteria and the application process. 

Improved Services and Processing Times:  The University of California, San Francisco 
requests that DHS develop an overall strategic plan that sets specific benchmarks for 
improvements, and planned evaluations along the timeline to provide checks for 
compliance. 

The proposal outlines a number of efficiencies that the DHS plans to implement, but we 
are concerned about accountability. We fully agree that the processing times for standard 
H-1Bs, duplicate approvals, travel/re-entry permits, and work authorizations must be 
substantially improved, but for this to work, DHS must have a plan. 

We believe the “Business Transformation Initiative” outlined by the Department should 
be an urgent priority, and we recommend that DHS provide clear plans for how USCIS 
plans to use the increased fees to assure accountability. For example, at a minimum, DHS 
should specify when changes will be made, such as enhanced IT capabilities including 
electronic filing and adjudication; employer pre-certified accounts; payment of fees via 
credit cards; and improved SSA-USCIS checks to expedite issuance of SS cards.  

DHS could also ease processing by allowing O-1 extensions to be issued in one-to-three-
year increments; allowing multi-year EADs; and permitting I-485 filings and benefits, 
such as work authorization and travel permits, even if a priority date is not available.  

Security Checks:  The University of California, San Francisco recommends that DHS 
provide information about this process so students, scholars, and their host institutions 
can know where within the approval and security clearance process the backlogs are. 

Additional funds must be made available for updated training of staff, and for creating 
clear expectations for when additional security checks will be imposed, such as Mantis 
reviews and “FBI checks.” Often, continued delays are referred to vaguely as FBI checks, 
but there is little understanding of the steps that must be taken to conduct a Mantis review 
or to complete an FBI check. Greater transparency in visa processing and approvals is 
long overdue and would allow visa applicants to follow their paperwork through the 
process and reduce the need for security reviews that may not be needed. 

The DHS overall strategic plan for improvements of services should also outline how 
funds will be allocated to the FBI to eliminate delays in the clearance process.  

Customer Service:  The University of California, San Francisco recommends that DHS 
make improved customer service an urgent priority and implement the California Service 
Center (CSC) model each Service Center.  

We are very pleased with the CSC customer service model, but remain concerned about 
the implementation of the Service Center Bi-Specialization System. The CSC had the 
least amount of backlog, but under bi-specialization, service has recently deteriorated 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
considerably and has added costs for the university in delayed start dates and shipping 
fees. Prior to bi-specialization the CSC was processing H-1B petitions for extensions in 6 
to 8 weeks.  It now takes 10 to 12 weeks. 

The University is also concerned about the consistency of adjudication within and across 
the Service Centers. Again, based on our extensive experience, we have seen varied 
outcomes for the same services based on differing interpretations of staff at the service 
centers, even after guidance from the national and regional offices about proper 
procedures. For example, one campus reports that all of the permanent residency petitions 
submitted to the Texas Service Center have been cleared within six months while the 
petitions retained at the Nebraska Service Center remain pending after more than eight 
months.  Additionally, the Nebraska Service Center continues to issue extra-regulatory 
interpretations concerning educational evaluations, degree equivalency, and permanent 
employment, which do not appear to have been reviewed by USCIS Headquarters nor 
reviewed and agreed upon by the Texas Service Center  

Conclusion 
Before ending, I think it is important that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security 
look at what our nation gains from a secure and efficient visa system that allows our 
colleges and universities to offer the free and open exchange of ideas and scholarship. 
The ability of the United States to retain its leadership position in science, research and 
development, education, and innovation, is dependent upon having fair and transparent 
visa policies that allow us to attract the world’s best and brightest students to our shores 

Again, I thank you for the opportunity to comment on the proposed changes, and we 
appreciate your consideration of our views.  

Sincerely, 

Janet Thelen Lockwood 
Director, Services to International Students and Scholars 
University of California, San Francisco 

Janet Thelen Lockwood 
Director, Services to International Students and Scholars 
University of California, San Francisco 
513 Parnassus Avenue, Box 0477, SB-16 
San Francisco, CA  94143 
Tel: (415) 476-0280 
Fax: (415) 502-7180 
Email: janet.thelen-lockwood@ucsf.edu 
Website: http://student.ucsf.edu/siss