From: Cheryl Jones-Das [mailto:Cheryl_Jones_Das@LCFS.org]  
Sent: Wednesday, March 28, 2007 8:29 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: CIS adoption-related fee increases 

Dear Director, Management Systems, USCIS: 

My husband and I are adoptive parents of two children adopted internationally.  We are 
writing to express our concern about the US Citizenship and Immigration Services proposed 
fee increases for adoption-related petitions  - Docket Number  USCIS-2006-0044. 

International adoption has become so expensive.  Many of the people we know already  have 
trouble affording to adopt a child from overseas.  My husband and I had to borrow money in 
order to adopt our two daughters.   There are few infants and toddlers in the United States 
that are both healthy and available for adoption.  Couples who desperately want children 
and can not have them biologically are having difficulty in financing an international 
adoption.  

The fees associated with CIS are already expensive.  In addition, some families must re-file 
and re-pay the fees because the I600A application expires within 18 months and many 
countries are not able to process the adoption before the I600A application expires.  Also, 
many families must be re-fingerprinted because their fingerprint clearances expire in 15 
months and their adoption has not been completed in that time frame.  Finally, in Illinois we 
have to pay for fingerprinting for state clearances, and again for FBI clearances and the 
again for CIS FBI clearances!  It is crazy that we must be fingerprinted three times and pay 
each time!  There is no reason that we should need to pay for two sets of FBI fingerprints!   

CIS is now proposing fee increases that average over 60% more!  This poses a hardship on 
adoptive families, all of whom are US citizens and already support USCIS through our 
taxes.  If this increase is approved,  CIS should provide us with better service including 
making an exception for adoptive parents, so that our fingerprints and the I600A petition 
would not expire for 24 months.     

CIS is also asking for a fee increase for the N600 application for a certificate of citizenship 
that is over 12 times the current fee!  Since CIS has already scrutinized the child’s 
documents from the foreign country and granted the child a permanent resident visa and the 
children are automatically granted US citizenship upon the adoption here becoming final, 
the proposed fee increase to simply obtain the certificate of citizenship seems very high 
indeed!  We had to apply for a certificate of citizenship for our daughter because we obtained 
guardianship of her in India and then adopted her here in the US.  India does not allow 
Americans to adopt in India, so we had not choice but to adopt her here and then apply for a 
certificate of citizenship.  We do not think it is fair that you penalize families like us by 
charging such a high fee when you automatically send other adoptive parents their children's 
certificates of citizenship after their adoption is final in the foreign country.  While we do 
support your automatically mailing these families certificates of citizenship at no extra 
charge, you should not be charging families like ours the high fee you already charge us 
much less making it even higher!    We, like them, have already paid CIS fees in association 
with our children's visas.   

Please do not make adoptive parents' dreams of having a child so expensive that we can not 
afford it.  Do not increase the adoption-related fees.   

 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
Cherie Jones Das and B. David Das