From: Michael Johnson [mailto:manchesterian@yahoo.com]  
Sent: Friday, February 16, 2007 5:45 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: USCIS-2006-0044 

Hi, 

Thanks for a chance to comment on the new proposed fee increases for 
immigration benefits. 

I think that the USCIS has the right to increase fees to whatever level is deemed 
neccessary for its operations but that should be done without attempting to pull 
the wool over its clients eyes. 

The fee increase for I -485, Adjustment of Status is predicated on an 
acknowledgement that it will take well beyond a year for adjudication on these 
applications which seems contradictory to the goals of the USCIS.  I notice that 
the emphasis is on processing and for persons already in the system we realize 
that the USCIS has moved up processing dramatically but it is not being equated 
at the adjudication level.  However, it is quite clear that Name Check is now 
being used as the s'cape goat' and holding area for the vast amount of 
applications being processed but which the agency is incapable of adjudicating in 
a timely manner. 

What we need is honesty and unfortunately that is not forthcoming.  It does no 
good to be less than honest.  As immigrants, the vast majority of us are 
hardworking, honest and willing to pay what is justifiable in exchange for honest 
and reasonable service.  Unfortunately for many that is not the case and we feel 
that it will be a matter of paying much more for the same tardy and 
inefficient service. 

I am particularly distressed that Mr. Gonzalez, himself an immigrant, continue to 
perpetuate and even elevate the dishonesty that now exists. 

My humble suggestion is that the USCIS be completely honest in its fee 
increases, statements about processing, adjudication, and any promise for the 
delivery of future services. 

I have been in the I-485 process awaiting name check clearance for over 19 
moths, on our third EAD and AP for a family of four, finger prints have expired 
and no notification for new ones and at this point having no idea when 
adjudication will take place,. so I know what I am talking about. 

Michael Johnson