CATHOLIC  COMM  SRVCS 

I  CATHOLIC 
COMMUNITY 
SERVICES 

2 5 0   E A S T   3 0 0   S O U T H ,  S U I T E   3 8 0  

S A L T   L A K E   C I T Y .

  U T A H   8 4 1 1 1  

( 8 0 1 ) 9 7 7 - 9 1 1 9  

G E N E R A L   A G E N C Y   F A X   ( 8 0 1 ) 9 7 7 - 8 2 2 1  

I M M I G R A T I O N   B  R E S E T T L E M E N T   F A X   ( 8 0 1 ) 9 7 7 - 9 2 2 4  

F A C S I M I L E  T R A N S M I T T A L  S H E E T  

PHONE N U M B E R  

SENDER'S  REFERENCE N U M B E R  

R 

I 

YOUR  REFERENCE N U M B E R  

CATHOLIC  COMM  SRVCS 

Director Einilio Gontalez 
Regulatory Management Division 
U.S. Citizenship and  Immigration Serviccs 
Department oFHo~neland Sccurity 
11 1 Massachusctts Avenuc, NW, 3rd Floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

REF: DHS Docket No.  USCIS-2006-0044 

Dear Director Gonzalez: 

Catholic Community S o i c e s  respectfully  submits this comment in oppos~tion to 
the proposed  rule to increase immigration  fees as published  in  72 Fed.  Rcg.  21  at 4888 
(Feb. 1,2007). 

Catholic Community Services' Interest in the Proposed Rule 

Catholic Coinmunity Seivices of Utah  (CCS)  is a non-profit organization  in  Salt 

Lake  City,  Utah  which  scrves  a  divcrse  array  of  individuals  in  need  of  co~npassionate 
service.  In addition  to  its homeless  outreach  and  substance treatment  services,  CCS o'f 
Utah  also  provides  assistance  to  nearly  300  refugees  each  year  who  are  cleared  For 
resettlnnent  in  the  United  States.  Thc  CCS  iininigration  program  strives  to  provide 
affordal~le and  coinpetcnt  immigration  counseling  and  assistance  with  such  matters  as 
refugec family reunification, alien relative visa petitions,  applications  for non-immigrant 
and  iminigant  visas,  adjustment  of  status  to  lawful  permanent  resident,  e~nploymcnt 
authorization,  naturalization,  asylum  consultation,  and  immigration court representation. 
In  addition to these core services, CCS provides  other related, peripheral  legal  assistance 
as rcqu,ired.  Also, through outreach activiticz that occur in coopera,tion with its charitable 
community  counterparts,  CCS  works  to  promote  knowledge  and  awarcncss  of  basic 
immigration  principles  and  to  dispcl  the  harmful  ~nisinfomstion circulating  among 
migrant groups. 

- 

h4anjr  of  CCS'  clients  live  at  or  below  thc  federal  poverty  level  and  have 

significant  difficulties  learning  the  English  language. 
population,  tlie  complexity  of  the  immigration  process  can  oftcn  make  evcn  simple 
immigration  matters  seem  daunting.  Moreover  thc  expense  of private  counsel  can  put 
It  is  for  this  reason  that  the  CCS' 
professional  immigration  assistance  out  of  reach. 
Immigration  Program  was  established  and  continues  to  carry out its mission  to  provide 
affordable, quality immigration lcgal service to refugees and immigrants living in Utah. 

For  this  highly  vulnerabl~ 

Comments on the f'ropos~d Action 

Our comment addresses five main issue*: 

CATHOLIC  COMM  SRVCS 

I .   The mandate issued  by Congress in  8 U.S.C. $1356 (rn)  that  the USClS  ~recovcr 
the  full  costs  of  adjudicating  immigrant  petitions  should  not  be  i n t q r e t c d   to 
mean that immigrants must also bear the burden of funding the USCIS mission to 
protect national sccurity. 

2.  Many  of  the  proposed  fees  are  cost  prohibitive  to  qualified  law-abiding 
immigrants.  This means that fewer  qualified  applicants  will  submit petitions  ,For 
benefits and that many of those to do elcct to file for benefits will likely no longcr 
be able afford l g a l  representation for their filings.  Two of the proposed  ,fees will 
cause immeasurable hardships to imi~~igrant clients: 

A.  The proposed  fcc for  the  1-485  Adjustment  of  Status is faulty because  it 
does not prcsmt a clear and undmtandablc reason why raising the fee will 
benefit 1-455 applicants or increase operational efficiencies. 

B. The proposed  N-400  fee is grossly disproportlonatc to the averagc incolno 
level of N-400 naturalization  applicants and therefore cost prohibitive. 

3.  The proposal to rcrnove the ability of most  applicants to apply for a fee waiver  IS 
unreasonable  and  arbitrary because  it  docs not provide evidence that  USCIS has 
thoroughly analyzed thc need for a ban on fee waivers for each type of application 
tYPC. 

4.  USCIS  has  expressed  no  satisfactory  justification  for  their  refusal  to  approach 
Congress  for  funds  to  make  the  improvements  in  USCIS  technology  and 
infrastructure which  are necessary  to  ensure the permanent  eradication of legacy 
INS  backlogs;  nor  has  USCIS  offered  a  legitimate  rationale  for  Director 
Gonzalez'  refusal  to  request  that  Congress  appropriate  funding  for  the  USClS 
goals  proposed  in  the  rule.  This  decision  appears  to  clearly  be  arbitrary  and 
capricious in light of Senate Bill 795 which has proposed to fund USCIS activities 
which arc not directly associated with processing or adjudication. 

1.  The  statute  authorizing  USCIS  to  collect  fees  to  recover  the  full  costs  of 
providing LLadjudication and naturalization services"  does not  authorize USCIS 
to  use  those  fees  to  promotc  the  national. security  objective9  of  the  executive 
branch. 

The proposed  rule statcs in  section I1 that the Jmmigration and Nationality  Act o f  
1952 (8 U.S.C.  1356) authorizes USCIS  to collect  "fees  for providing  adju,dication and 
naturalization  services ..... [ I ]   il?rrr  v,iIl erzsln-e rccoveiy  of tlze,full cosrs ofpr,ovidirzg  all 
such  services.. . [and]  any  additioiral  costs  associated  121 with  ihc ad~nirzistvntion oftlie 
.fees  collected." 

This  statute  confers  rather  broad  and  discretionary  power  on  the  USCIS  to 
determine  what  fee  rates  will  allow  it  to  recover  the  costs  of  a,djudication  and 
administration. This statute does not envision  nor does it  authorize the USCIS to  collcct 

CATHOLIC  COMM  SRVCS 

costs to devise the means and infrastructure necessary to help lo protcct national security. 
The proposed  rule, howcvcr,  clearly includes a proposal to  raise fees to  help the USCIS 
prolccl national security. 

The proposed  rulc  states  thpt  the  protection  of  national  security  has  becomc  a 
major  objective of the  USCIS  which  demands  that  USCIS  increase proccssing  fees  so 
that  USCIS  can  conduct  thomugh  and  colnprchensive  national  sccurity  background 
checks.  For example,  Section X (pp 491 1)  of the proposed  rule states that "most  of  the 
increases  in  colnpletion  ratcs  are  associated  with  the  additional  time  devoted  to  thc 
expansion of background  checks to all immigration benefit  applications instituted in July 
2002,"  Section  VI  (b)  and  Table  8  announced  that  nearly  2%  or  approximately  48 
million  dollars of  all  processing  costs  arc  attributed  to  the  new  IBIS  national  security 
In  Section  111  subsection  C  (3)  (Urgency  and 
which  were mandated  in  July  of 2002. 
Rationale  for  New  FCC Schedule)  the  USCTS  states that  "this  rule  proposes  additional 
funding  in  support  of  FBI  name  checks."  It  is  assumed  that  the  additional  funding 
~nentioncd here  rdates  to  the  biotnstrics  CE increase  which  will  rise  from  $70.00 to 
$80.00.  Unfortunately,  the proposed  rule  does  not  list  a  specific budget  allocation  for 
FBI name chccks nor does it inake Inention  o'f how much money the  USCIS will need to 
ensure the efficient administration  of  FBI  name checks. Previou,sly, fhc USClS h ~ d  only 
administered  a  domestic  criminal  background  check  of  applicants  for  immigration 
bmcfits.  This  FBI  fingerprint  check had  becn  authorized by Pub.  L.  105-1 19, 11 1 Stat. 
2448-2449 (1997).  To date the fee imposcd  to  recover  the cost of taking biomctrics to 
conduct this cost has not hem cost prohibitive. 

The costs associated  with  the administration  of the  FBI  name  checks,  however, 
arc another matter entirely.  As of July of 2002 thc USClS changed its security policy to 
require two new security chccks of each immigrant applicant:  1) an  IBIS check and 2) an 
FBI name check.  Although  the proposed  rulc describes the funding demands for the ncw 
IBIS checks,  the rule makcs no reference to  the ad~ninistrative and processing problc~ns 
related  to  the FBI name check.  The DHS'  own  inspector  general  published  a report  on 
the probletns  which  resulted  froin  the  implementation  of the  FBI  name  check  in  2002. 
This  rcport  entitled  "A  re vie^: qf  U.S.  Ciltenslzip  and lmmigr~tion Se~i,ices' Alien 
at 
S c c u r i ~  
e
~

(November 
06-06  NovOS-~pdf statcs that: 
G

Clzeck~,  (OlG 
i

06-06), 
a

available 

2005) 

I

r

t

y

h

~
"...for  a  fraction  of  cases,  slow,  inconclusive,  or  legally  inapplicable 
security check results  can cause application pi-ocessing to stall  for months 
or evcn years. These delays can interfere with USCIS'  concluding national 
security  and  public  safety  hits  with  timely  denials  or  referrals  to  law 
enforcement.  In  addition,  stalled  cases dccrcasc operational  efficiency by 
reducing  productivity  and  contributing  to  hundreds  of  lawsuits  against 
USCIS."' 

Nowhere 

in  Section  VI 

(which  describes  USClS  current  and  proposed 
cxpcnditures) does the USClS propose a figure which  will  eliminate the FBI backlog  of 
name checks.  Although the authority of the USCIS to resolve these delays lias become a 
subject  of  litigation;  the  USCIS  itseIf  has  stated  that  it  has both  the  authority  and  the 
capability  to take action to rcsolvc  delays.  In  fact,  the November 2005 OIG report  e v m  

' Deparlmcnr oPMorneland Securiry (OIG 06-06]  a1 24. 

3 

 
CATHOLIC  COMM  SRVCS 

referenced the fact that the USCIS ha,d once  'detailed'  six staff to the  FBI to help rcsolve 
the name  check  delays. 
In  December  of  2006 the  USCIS  released  an  internal  Inenlo 
titled  "FBI  Name  Checks  Policy  and  Process  Clari'lication  for  Domestic  Opcrations'' 
issued by Assoc,iate Director of Operations Michael  Aytes on Decmbcr 2 1,  2006  ,  This 
m a n o  stated that the USClS would  only expedite name check  cases in  four situations:  1) 
~ n i l i t a y  service; 2) age outs; 3) dire medical  emergencies and  4) social  security income 
terminations.  Both sources veri'fy that the USCTS bas the authority necessary to deal with 
what  has become  a major  obstacle to  efficient  processing;  yet  the  proposed  rulc  never 
designates a funding allocation for this pulposc. 

CCS  does not  dispute thc ornissio~~ of funding  allocations for FBI  name checks. 
This  is because  FBI  name  checks  are  clearly  pcrfonned  pursuant  to  the  promotion  of 
national sccurity objectives, and thercforc FBI name checks arc not the types o'f activities 
which  should  be  funded  by  immigrant  processing  fees.  CCS  does  find  it  worrisome, 
however  that  the  proposed  rule  includes  the  following  two  features:  1)  Thc statement 
made  by  Director  Gonzalcz on the  day  he  introduced the  rule  which  declared  that  the 
USCIS had  no intention  of requesting  Congressional  appropriations,  which  would  mean 
that  the USCIS receive no  funding to help  it  elilninatc the  FBI name check backlog:  2) 
The rulc  docs  state  that  processing  fccs will  be  used  to  find  IBIS  checks,  an  activity 
whicll relates more to the USCIS mission  to protect national  security than to its mandnte 
to recovcr the costs of adjudication and administration  of imnigrant petitions.  As shown 
above,  the  IBlS  checks  have  becomc  a major  cost  for the  USCIS.  Thc  IBIS  database, 
howcvcr, is often  included in government reports which evaluate the effectiveness of the 
"terrorist  watch  list"  database system.'  It is obvious, thcrcfore, that t l ~ e  design, operation 
and  rnaintcnance  of  the  USCIS  IBIS  chccks  and  the  FBI  name  chccks  have  beco~ne 
critical tools to the ability of the government to protect national security. 

Bccausc  IBIS  and  FBI  name  chccks  do  not  amount  lo  mcre  processing  or 
administrative costs; applicants for i~n~nigration benefits should not be forced to bear thc 
burden  of this  cost  alonc.  Therefore,  USCIS  should  rcmovc  from  its proposed  rule  all 
requests  for  funding  which  relate  to  its  mission  to  protcct  the  national  security  of  thc 
United Statss.  The USClS should then seek a morc proper and appropriate sourcc for this 
funding by requesting  that  the  Executive  and  or  Congress  propose  a  bill  which  would 
allocate  funding  to  the  USCIS  at  a  level  which  will  allow  the  USClS  to  design, 
implement  and maintain  an  efficient  and reliable security check  system.  Un'tbrtunately, 
thc  USCIS  nircdor  Gonzalez  appears  unwilling  to  seek  Congressional  appropriations; 
this refusal  (as elaborated  in point  4) makes  the  entire premise  of thc rule  arbitrary  and 
capricious. 

2.  Many  of  the  proposed  Fees  are  cost  prohibitive  far  qualified  law-abiding 

immigrants. 

* Id.  ar  27 (the repon staled specifically that "in  March 2005, USClS detailed five pmsonncl  to the FBI 
National Name Check Program for up to a year to asssit with  the pedding FBI name checks.") 
' ' U.S. Gcnernl Accounting Office  (GAO), Rq~ort lo Cong~~ssionul Reqrre,srer;v, h?for!lrutioir Tcchnologv; 
Terrorist  Wutclz Lis/,r Shorrld Bc  Coit,s~lih!ed !b P~vrnore Better. Integ~ation und Sltaring.  0A0-03-322 
avnilnble at ~ ~ ~ ~ w ~ o . g o v l n c w . i t ~ r n s / d O 3 3 2 2 ~ ~ d ~  

CATHOLIC  COMM  SRVCS 

The immigt-ants and  rcfugees  served by CCS have expressed  alarm  about the fees 
proposed  in  thc  rulc.  These  climts  already  \work  for  months  to  save  the  resources 
necessary to pay  for  immigration benefits at thc current  fee rate.  The 'cost  of inflation' 
fee increases  in  the  last  few  years  have  already  put  many  irnmigation benefits  out  of 
reach  for low incorne immigrants and refugees. 

CCS  resettlcs  several  h~lridred refugees  each  year.  Rehgecs  make  a  heroic 
attempt  to  adapt  to  American  culture,  learn  English  and  support  large  families  (CCS 
routincly  r~settles familics of 8-12 people). 
It  is rare,  howcver,  for refugees to he  in  a 
position to forgo all federal public assistance within the first  10 years of their resettlement. 
For  cxa~nple, a  lilajority  of  the  Somali,  Sudanese,  Liberian,  Iraqi  and  Afghan  refugees 
resettled by CCS from  1995-2001 continue to receive housing assistance a,nd food stamps 
due to  the  low  wages  they  receive  for  their  work  and  the  large size of  their  families. 
When it  comcs  time  for  refugees  to  adjust  thcir  status,  sponsor  family  me~nbcrs or 
naturalize they often havc to  save what littlc income they  havc  to be able to pay  for the 
filing fees.  As  a result,  most immigrant  and refugcc  families rhust  pay  for immigration 
benefits like adjustment of status and naturalization  on  a piecemeal basis.  Tliesc families 
also  nften  seck  alternatives  to  immigration  benefits  which  are  clearly  infen'or  to  Ihc 
bencfits  provided  by  thc  USClS  but  which  may  be  purcha,scd  for  a  lower  cost.  For 
example,  many  rcfugees  and  asylecs  forgo  submitting  applications  for  permanent 
residence becausc they cannot afford the fees.  In  doing so they put tliemsclvcs at risk  o'f 
repatriation  if  the  country  conditions  of  their  liomc  states  ever  changc.  Furthemiore, 
many parents of minor children who naturalize  in thc U.S. elect to obtain U.S. passports 
for their children rather than  the Inore pclmanent  citizenship  cmificates  simply because 
passports cost much less than the N-600. 

CCS  anticipatcs  that  trends  like  this  will  continue  and  even  worsen  if  the 
proposed  fees take effect.  Moreovcr,  this  pr-oposed rulc  will  force most  immigrants  to 
divert  finds  they  may  nthmwisc  havc  used  for  legal  counsel  to  covering  the  mot-e 
expensive filing fees.  This would  mean that  mare applications will  bc filed incorrectly, 
incompletely  or  submittcd  by  imtnigrants  who  are not  even eliyiblc  for  the  benefit  for 
which  they have  applied,  This would  lead  to  an  increase in inefficiency for d ~ e  USCIS. 
It  would.  also  likely  delay  and  complicate  processing  and  adjudication  because 
adjudicators  will  find  it  necessary  to  issue  more  requests  for  evidence.  Even  more 
worrisome,  it  is  likely  that  qualified  applicants  may  resort  to  seeking advicc from  low 
cost but dishonest practitioners who prey  upon  econo~nically disadvantaged  immigrants. 
These unlicensed  practitioners  also  often  turn  clean  cases into  disorganized  tnesses  and 
frequently submit applications on behalf of ineligible immigrants. 

Therefore, CCS proposes that the USCIS reconsider raising the fees for family bascd 
pctitions,  adjustment  o'f  status  applications  and  naturalization  relafed  pctitions. 
In 
particular,  CCS rcquests that the USCIS consider the following arguments with respect to 
the 1-485 and the N-400: 

A.  The proposed rule's  discussion of the new 1-485 fec  i s  confusing, misleading and 
unreasonable  and therefore  the  USClS should  reconsider  raising the  fec  for  I- 
485 applications. 

CATHOLIC  COMM  SRVCS 

C,CS is  a  Catholic  Legal  Immigration Network  Inc  (CLINIC) and  U.S.  affiliate. 
'The CLINIC  comment  to  Ihc proposed  rule  (submitted  by  Mirna  Torres)  declared  that: 
"Under  the proposed  rule,  the 1-485 filing fee will  risc  from  the  cutrent fee of $325 to 
$905.  An  additional  $80 biolnetric  fee would  bring the 7-485  filing  fcc to  $985.  This 
excludes  the  cost  of the  ~ncdical examination,  which  must  be  filed  with  thc  1-455 
application.  Medical  cxamination  fees  range  froin  $100  to  $200.  Thcrcforc,  at  a 
minimum, an applicant would need $1,100 (excluding the cost of legal services) to file an 
1-485  Torm.  The cuvent  federal  minirnu~m wage  is  $5.1 5 per  hour.  A  minitnun1 wage 
workm would  need to work 214 hours (nearly five and a half weeks at 40 hours a  week) 
to  meet  thc  $1,100 fee.  For many  of the  clients  served by  our programs,  savings  aftcr 
meeting monthly living expenses are minimal, and our clients would require years to save 
sufficient funds to file an 1-485 application at the proposed  cost."(CLINIC  comment pp. 
2)  CCS bclicvcs  that  this statement is an  accurate depiction  of the  situation  which  our 
clients will  face if the proposcd rule takes effect. 

CCS predicts  that  this fee will  likely have  a disastrous cffcct  on  asylees who  do 
not receive  automatic  fee waivers  for 1-485 applications.  Asylee  applicants  often  apply 
for permanent ]residence with  their  fatnilies.  An  asylee family of five would have to pay 
more than $5,000 to adjust status.  Bccause it appears that the pmposed rule would  refuse 
to  allow  an  1-485 applicant to  submit  a request  for a fee waiver of the  I-485 fee,  a low 
income asylee family of five would never be able to afford to adjust status, 

Unfortunately,  the USClS has  not  offcred  a  reasonable,  rational  or  even  clearly 
understandable motive for raising the  1-485 fee to  such  a cost prohibitive  level.  Instead 
the  USClS  has  stated  that  sincc  current  1-485  applicants  now  already  "pay  for  the 
processing  costs of intcrim benetits,"  (at  a  cost of nearly  $400.00) thc $580 increase in 
the 7-485 application  fee "is  far lcss significant"  than it would seem.  The obvious error in 
this reasoning is that with the promised improvements in eficiency, the need for intcriln 
benefits  will  decrease with  the  presulnably  shorter  adjudicatioln period.  Moreover,  this 
rationale completely dismisses that fact that a large percentage  of 1-485 applicants never 
applied  for interim  benefits  in thc first place.  Furthennore, at no point in  the discussion 
rclating  to  the  1-485  fcc  increase  did  the  USCIS  state  that  it  would  grant  work 
authorization  or  advance  parole  to  travcl  automatically. 
In  fact,  the  rule  states  in 
III(C)(5)(pp4892)  that  the  USCIS  will  reserve  the  right  to  continue  to  use  the  1-13], 
application  and the 1-765 applications to  process  interim  benefits  for those cases where 
"delays  in  processing  will  require  issuance  of  interim  bencfits."  This  means  that  the 
proposcd rule will  fail  to help Ihc USCIS becnrne more  efficient because it appears that 
applicants will still need to  submit separate applications for interim benefits which would 
rcquire that the USCIS  continue to  adjudicate thrcc petitions  instead of one.  Therefore, 
the  new  fee  will  essentially  charge  each  1-485  applicant  for  a  work  authorization  and 
advance parole even though payment of the new fee will neithcr guarantee that applicants 
will auto~natically receive these benefits nor will  it cvcn increase lJSCIS eficicncy.  For 
this reason, thc proposed 1-485 fee increasc is both  misleading  and unreasonable because 
it will impose an enonnous burden on  applicants without providing any real bencfit. 

E. The  proposed  N-400  fee  will  impose  a  cost  prohibitivc  obstacle  to  immigrants 

who desire to apply for citizenship. 

CATHOLIC  COMM  SRVCS 

The CLINIC  cornmcnt  submitted by  Mirna  T o ~ r e s  published  these  findings: "A 
study by the Urban  Institute found that 41  percent (2.4 million)  i~ninigrants now eligible 
to naturalize have incomes under 200 percent  o r  the poverty  Ievcl,  including  17 percent 
with  incoine  under  the  federal  poverty  levcl.  The proposed  ruIe  would  incrcasc  the 
combined  N-400  and  biometries  fees  from  a  total  of  $400  to  $675.  An  immigrant 
working at a minimum-wage job would  nccd to work  for more than three wccks and  save 
(CLINIC  comment  pp  2)  This  depiction 
all  of  his  or  her  earning  to  pay  this  fee." 
accurately describes thc  client population  which  CCS  serves.  Refugees  and  who reach 
the ,Five year mark  of their permanent  residence  and  have  often  worked  hard  to  become 
sclf sufficient enough to forgo federal public assistance.  Refugees limited education and 
English  language  abilities,  however,  often  mean  that  they  struggle  to  stay  afloat 
financially  which  means  that  it  is often  extrernely  difficult  for  them  to  pay  the  N-400 
filing fees.  These clients oAcn express their frustration about the immigration fee system 
bccause  they  feel  that  thcir  ability  to  stay  off  the welfare  roles  is not  rewarded.  They 
state  that  it  is  unfair  for  the  USCIS  to  continue  to  raise  the  costs  associated  with 
citizenship  applications  if it  refuses  to  grant  ,Fee  waivcrs  or  fee breaks  to  low  incoine 
immigrants who havc worked hard to  stay off welfare.  The proposed  N-400 fee increase 
exaccrbatcs this problem.  In fact, it may even send a message to immigrants that the US 
government  is  trying  to  put  citizenship  out  of  the  reach  o f  low  to  middle  inco~nc 
immigrants. 

CCS,  as  a  community  advocate,  already  struggles  to  encourage  rcfugccs  and 
immik~ants to take the steps necessary to become U.S. citizens.  CCS anticipates that the 
proposed  rule will  creatc another needless  obstacle in the road  toward citizenship, which 
for many refugees and immigrants is alrcady filled with inany hurdles.  English language 
and  civic  education  rcmain  huge  obstacles  to  immigrants  and  refugees  who  desire  to 
become U.S.  Citizens.  Refugees, a,s persecuted minorities,  often lack basic litaacy skills 
in  their  own  language  and  havc  enormous  difficulties  grasping  constitutional  concepts 
given  their  long  llistory  of  persecution  and  torturc.  As  a  result,  they  often  have  to 
participate  in  fee based  ESL/Civic  education  programs  for  several  months  before  they 
feel  competent  mough to  apply  for  cidzenship.  The proposed  rulc makcs no  attempt  to 
address the educational  hurdles  hccd by ilnlnigrants  who wish to  apply  for citizenship. 
In fact, the proposed  fee appears to be a inere arbitrary fee increase which fails to allocat,e 
any  funds to  USCIS  colnmunity liaisons  who  are  charged with  a  congressional  duty  to 
'promotc  the  opportunities  and  rcsponsibilities  of  U.S.  citizenship"  by  designing  and 
distributing  inaterials  in  cooperation  with  community  groups  and  ""private  voluntary 
a,gencies7' pursuant to INA 5  332 (h). 

Therefore the proposed  rule not  only fails to improve the  ability of the USClS to 

promotc civic education and understanding, it will make the situation worse. 

3.  The proposed fee waiver systcrn discussed in section X I  proposcs an unnecessary 

and ill reasoned bar to fec waivers for most applications. 

It  is undisputed  that  there  are  instances  in  which  the  rejection  of a  fee  waiver 
application  is  appropriate.  The  proposed  rule  statcs  that  cutrently  oven  busincssea 
attempt  to  apply  for  fee waivers  under  the  current discretionary  system.  While  it  may 
make scnsc for the USClS to bar applicants for employment based  immigration  benefits 

CATHOLIC  COMM  SRVCS 

fiom  requesting  that  the  USCIS  waive  the  application  fees;  it  will  be  unfair  and 
unreasonable  for  the  USClS  to  impose  such  a  ban  on  1-485  applicants  a,nd  family 
reunification pctitioners. 

The proposed rule statcs that many i r n m i ~ a n t  applicants will be held to the public 
charge grounds of inadmissibility.  The rule asscrts that permitting one of these applicants 
to apply for a fee waiver is contl-ay to the very purpose of the application.  The rule also 
states that  eliminating  the  ability  of most applicants  to  apply  for a  fee waiver  will  also 
increase processing  efficiency.  (see rule pp. 4912). While it may be efficient  to  impose 
such a ban  it will certainly not be fair.  Morcover, tlie list of applicants who will continue 
In  fact,  it appears  that  the 
to  be  eligiblc  for  a  fee  waivcr  is  grossly  under-inclusive. 
USCIS  has  failed  to present any figures in  Section XI  which  verify  that the USClS has 
undertaken  a  cautious  and  thoughtful  study  of  the  fee  waiver'  issue.  Therefore,  the 
proposal  to  eliminate  fee  waivers  for  most  immigration  benefit  applicants  i s   clearly 
arbitrary and capricious. 

There  are  two  major  examples  of  the  arbitrary  way  in  which  the  USClS  has 
imposed  the  fee waiver  bar.  First,  the proposal  bars  all  1-485 applicants from  applying 
for fee waivers becausc it states that  all  adjustment  applicants must prove that they will 
not  become  public  charges.  This  is  an  obvious  Error  because  many  classes  of  1-485 
applicants  are exempt  from  the public  charge grounds of inadtnissibility.  Refugcs  and 
asylces are statutorily exempt from the public charge grounds.  Similarly, applicants who 
petition, for  permanent  residence  pursuant  to  the  Violence  Against  Wotncn  Act,  the 
Cuban  Adjustment  Act,  the  Nicaraguan  Adjustment  and  Central  American  Relief  Act, 
and  thc  Haitian  Retilgee  Immigration  Fairness  Act  are  also  e x m p t   from  the  public 
charge ground  of inadmissibility.  Thesc exmptions were granted  by  Congress because 
the populations  in question wcrc historically  disadvantaged, low income, or like Cubans, 
rcfugees  and  asylces,  would  have  already  received  direct  grants  of  federal  public 
assistance  in  recognition  of their financial hardships.  Thcrcfore,  it  would be contraly t,o 
the  clear  intent  of  Congress  for  USCIS  to  bar  these  applicants  from  filing  fee  waiver 
applications whcn they apply for permanent residence. 

The second malor oversight made by  the USCIS'  proposed  fcc waiver ban  is its 
inclusion  of the Family reunification petition.  The proposed  1-130 fee will nearly  double 
under the proposed  fee increase. yet the USCIS intcnds to forbid all 1-1 30 applicants from 
filing  for  fee  waivers.  While  it  could  be  argued  that  1-130  sponsors will  he  asked  to 
prove  that  they  have sufficient  incomc  to  ensure that  thcir beneficiaries do not bccorne 
public charges and thus should not receive fee waivers; this argument does not recognite 
the rcality of family sponsorship.  Most family sponsors face a 5-1 0 year wait prior to the 
arrival  of  their  family  manber  depending  on  visa  availability. 
It  is  therefore 
advantageous  for  immigrants to  sponsor  family  mmnbers  as  soon  as tliey  are  cligible. 
Moreover, immigrants tnust often file tnore than  1-130 application at a timc becavee they 
have  lnore  than  one  family  member  with  whom  they  wish  to  be  reunited.  Thesc 
circumstances  often  necessitate  that  the  sponsor  submit  a  fee  waiver  application  with 
histher  1-130 petition.  Bccause the sponsor is not required  to danonstratc hislher ability 
to  support  the beneficiary  until  tlie  Visa  becolnes  available  (in  some  cases  5-1 0  years 
after  thc  date  the  1-130  was  submitted);  the  imposition  of  a  fee  waiver  ban  on  this 
category of applicant would impose a needless hardship on an immigrant who will  likcly 
be eligible to support thc family inanber whcn thc visa for the relative bcco~ncs available. 

CATHOLIC  COMM  SRVCS 

Rcfugces  in  particular  would  suffer if this ban  is put  into  effect.  Many  refugees  whose 
relatives to not qualify for reunification  pursuant to an 1-730 application wish to file an 1- 
130 shortly  after  they  arrivc.  Most  refugees  do not  have  tlie  capacity  to  support  the 
rclativc on  the date of filing, nor do they havc sufficient rbsourccs to pay the 1-1 30 liling 
fee.  Because refugees apply for family members  as lsennancnt residents,  they  routinely 
wait  5-8 ycars before the arrival of the relative.  This normally  gives the refugee  enough 
time to become self sufficient and earn enough rcsources to be able to file the aflidavit of 
support  whcn  thc Visa becomes  available.  If the proposed  fcc increase raises thc 1-1 30 
fcc to  $305.00 and  thc  USCIS  bans  all  1-130 applicants  from  filing for a  fee increase it 
would  effectively bar most refugees  and  other sirnilarly situatcd  low  i~icoine itnlnigrants 
from  filing an  1-1 30 application.  Moreover,  if  Congrcss elects to  renew  thc INA 245(i) 
provision,  the deadline will  likely  not  allow  most  immigrants swfficient time to  save to 
pay the new 1-130 fcc.  Thcrcfore, tlie :fee waivcr bar would also block the opportunity of 
thousands of alicns to qualify for future 245(i) relief. 

Because  the  fee  waivcr  bar  neither  addresses  nor  even  predicts  thc  potential 
problems which a fcw waiver bar could crcatc for immigrant and refugee petitioners, it is 
clearly arbit,rary and capricious and  should be removed from the proposed  rulc. 

4.  The  USCIS  Director  has  failcd  to  express  a  satisfactory  justification  for  his 
refusal  to  approach  Congrcss  for  allocation  of  additional  funds  to  support 
USCIS  services, thercforc  the  USCIS  this  proposcd fee increase  amounts to  an 
i n c r e a s ~  which  will  overwhelm  immigrant 
arbitrary  and  capricious  fee 
applicants m d  burden  them  with  costs which  would  be  bctter  allocated to U.S. 
taxpayers via congrfssionnl appropriations. 

CCS  in  no  way  wishes  to  iinply by  submitting this  coinrment  that  thc  projected 
ilnprovements in  service, processing,  technology and  security proposed by the rule a)-e ill 
devised  or unnecessary.  Rather,  these proposals  are colnmendable  and  reflect  the  new 
USCIS  dedication  to  service  and  efficiency  which  has  been  welcomed  and  lauded  by 
immigrant  and  refugee  groups.  In  fact,  immigrants  and  refugees  are  across  the board. 
more satisfied than cvcr before with  the levcl  of service and commitment to fa,irness and 
efficiency  which  USClS has demonstrated  in  recent  years.  The proposed  rule  declares, 
however, that the  USClS must  receive  a  large influx  in cash  in  order  For  thc  USCIS to 
continue o'ffering thcse types of higher quality snvice. 

Many  of  these  improvements  wcrc  made  possible  by  thc  Congressional 
allocations  which  granted  beginning  in  FY2002  pursuant  to  the  President's  backlog 
dimination  plan.  The proposed  rule,  the  statement  of the  director  and  the  community 
presentations  made  by  cornlaunity  liaisons  have  all  asse~ted that  this  funding  was 
insufficimt  to  ranedy  the  systemic  problerns  which  caused  thc  backlog.  In  fact,  this 
funding  allowed  USCIS  to  hire  teinporary  staff,  fund  a  customer  service  contract 
cotnpany  to  rcspond  to custoiner qumies  and  rent  temporary  o v ~ o w  
facilities.  These 
activities helped the USCIS to achieve its goal  of a 6 month  processing  turnaround time. 
This heroic effort  was applauded by most immigrant groups.  The proposed  rulc and  the 
accompanying  figures,  facts and  statements have  inade  clear howevcr,  that  the backlog 
elimination  plan  and  the  allocations provided  pursuant  to  this plan  wme  insufficient  to 
address  the  systernic problems  which  created  the  backlog.  CCS  and  many  other  legal 

CATHOLIC  COMM  SRVCS 

advocates contend  that the President and the U.S. Congress have the duty  to  continue lo 
allocate  and  appropriate  fu,nd,s to  the  IJSCIS  until  the  USCIS  has  eliminated  the  root 
causes for the backlog.  Therefore,  all of the funding which the USCIS rcquires to make 
technological  upgrades,  staff training,  increased  resourccs for st&  hiring  and  additional 
facilities should bc provided by Congress not processing fees. 

Whilc  the  USCIS  is  under  an  executive  mandate to  opcrate  primarily  as  a  fee- 
bascd  organization,  Congrcss  has  exprcssed  willingness  to  work  with  the  Agency  to 
improve  services.  This  willingness  was  evidenced  with  thc  2002  budget  appropriation 
and  the  renewal  of  this  appropriation  every  year  for  four  years. 
Last  inonth 
Congressional  leaders  (including  Senator  Bar&  Obama),  proposed  bill  S795  which 
intends to block the proposed  fcc increase and  provide enough  appropriations  (at a lcvel, 
which will be proposed by a new GAO study) to  promote citizcnship education. This bill 
e v m  proposes to clarify the USCIS Funding mandate by dcclaring that: 
(b) Sense of Congress- It is the sense of Congress that-- 
( 1 )   the Secretary of Homeland Security should set fees uadcr section 286(m)(3) of 
the  Immigration  and  Nationality  Act  (8  U.S.C.  1356(m)(3)),  as  amended  by 
subsection  (a) of  this  section, at  a  lcvcl  that  ensures recovery  of  only  the direct 
costs associated with the serviccs described in such section 286(m)(3); and 
(2)  Congress  should  appropriate  to  the  Sccreta~y of  Homeland  Security  such 
funds as JMay  be necessary to cover the indirect costs associated with  the snviccs 
described in such scction 286(m)(3). (Text of Bill S 795 $2 (b)) 

in  pursuing 

largely  uninterested 

thc  USCIS  appears 

Many  commentators,  legal  practitioners,  for profit  and  non  profit  organizations 
have expressed  willingness to  lobby  Congressional  leaders in support of bills like S795. 
Sadly, 
the  possibility  of 
Congressional  appropriations  to help it mcct its technological, inkastmctural  and  s m i c e  
oriented goals.  In  fact, Director  Gonzalcz  stated that: "we  have a  mandate that we be a 
self-sustaining,  fcc-ba,sed agency, and  I  have not in my conversation  with  Congress  ever 
gone and asked  for an qppmpriation.  At this point  I have no intention  oFdoing so."  This 
response is clearly inadequate given both the compelling national  security needs faced by 
thc  USCIS  and  the  willingness  of  Congrcss  to  provide  funding  to  the  USCIS.  This 
imational  and  unreasonable  attitude undermines  the very  purpose  o '  proposing  this rule 
which is supposedly based  on a  study of all  available sources o f  income for the USCIS. 
Therefore, the rule itself appears to  be  arbitrary  and  capricious in that is not based  on  a 
sound reasoning or analysis of all possible funding sources. 

As  stated  in  point  1 of this  comment, the rulc  also  clearly  inappropriately shifts 
the  burden  of  the  USCIS  to  protect  the  national  security  from  Congress  to  i~ninigrant 
applicants  themselves.  As  such  the  rulc  should  be  withdrawn  until  such  time  as  the 
USCIS proposes and receives a lcvcl  of Congressional  appropriations  which will  allow it 
to permanently eliminate the processing backlog by removing thc systemic inefficiencies, 
stsfland building  shortages,  and  out  dated  technology which  led  to  the backlog  in  the 
first  place.  USClS also clearly needs  to  evaluate what  level  of resourccs it  will  need  to 
implement, maintain and  efficiently adtninistcr the type of background  checks which  arc 
essential  to  its  ability  to  protect  national  security.  ARcr  conducting  this  thorough 
evaluation  the  USClS  needs  to  present  its  findings  to  Congress  and  ask  for  a  lcvcl  of 
funding which  will  allow  it to meet  its national  security ol>jective.  Until  and unless the 

CATHOLIC  COMM  SRVCS 

USCIS  makes  this  effort,  all  major  increases  in  application  fccs  will  bc  arbitrary  and 
cap~icious and an  abusc of the discretion held by the USCIS to rnakc a well reasoned and 
inlbnned rule. 

We thank you for your consideration  d o u r  comment and hope that you will  scck 

to address the issues hcrein. 

Most Sincerely, 

Aden Batar, Director; Alvssa Williams.  Immigration Attorncy 
Refugee ~esettlemcnt an> Immigration 
catholic Community Serviccs ofUtah 

-