From: Maria Guralnik [mailto:mguralnik@cliburn.org]  
Sent: Monday, March 26, 2007 11:21 AM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: USCIS-2006-0044 re increase in O-1 processing fee 

The Van Cliburn Foundation is best known for presenting the Van Cliburn International Piano 
Competition, one of America's most prestigious cultural events on a quadrennial basis.  It is my 
privilege and responsibility to coordinate U.S. tours for the outstanding young artists awarded as 
winner of each competition for the three years following each event.  Assisting the Foundation's 
efforts to launch the careers of these often foreign-born artists are television documentaries, 
internet and radio programs and commercial record distributors along with hundreds of non-profit 
concert and orchestra presenters interested in bringing the best talent of a new generation to their 
audiences.  In light of the proposed increase in filing fees toward O-1 visas for touring artists, why 
would our government want to create additional hurdles for the many deserving young 
artists to connect with American audiences when it allows for so many 
programs/auspices/attitudes that support what we do?   And from the other perspective, why 
should concert-attenders be denied the opportunity to experience the best young talents of a 
generation - many of whom cannot be guaranteed enough income from concert engagements to 
cover increased travel costs -  because our government seems not to be able to find a way to 
process paperwork (even for the many who have toured here on a regular basis) efficiently 
without undue harm to the recipient? 

PLEASE DO NOT FURTHER INCREASE THE INCREASING POSSIBILITY THAT FOREIGN-
BORN ARTISTS WILL LOSE INTEREST/HOPE IN SHARING THEIR TALENTS WITH 
AMERICAN AUDIENCES - ultimately eroding the base for our existences as well as that for 
many of our esteemed colleagues. 

Thank you,  

Maria Guralnik, General Manager 
Van Cliburn Foundation 
(817) 738-6536 X 127 

From: Lisa Conlon [mailto:mozartfan1@hotmail.com]  
Sent: Monday, March 26, 2007 9:46 AM 
To: Lisa Conlon 
Subject: X-Mail from known Spam Domain NAPAMA ALERT- Visa Filing Fee Comment Deadline 
Approaching 

 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
Dear Members,  

If you have not already sent your 
comments to USCIS board regarding the 
potential raising of visa filing fees, please 
do. The deadline for the open comment 
period end this coming Monday, April 
2nd. I know I don’t have to tell you that 
this is a very important and relevant issue 
that will have a significant impact on the 
artistic community! 

Best wishes,  

Laura Colby 
President, NAPAMA 
laurac@elsieman.org 

The proposed increases are as follows: 

I-129 Form (O & P Visa applications):  
currently $190, proposed $320 
I-824 Form: currently $200, proposed 
$340 

Here are two links to read more about the 
proposed increase in fees and to find 
sample language: 
http://www.americanartsalliance.org/camp
aign/visaprocessingfeeincrease 
http://www.symphony.org/govaff/immigra/s
ample_comments.pdf 

Your comments must be submitted 
DIRECTLY to the USCIS and received by 
April 2, 2007.  The contact information for 
the USCIS is as follows: 

Mailing Address: 

Director 
Regulatory Management Division 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, 3rd 
Floor 

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Washington, DC 20529 

Email Address: 
OSComments@dhs.gov 
(Please include USCIS-2006-0044 in the subject line of the message)