22 March 2007  

Director  
Regulatory Management Division  
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services  
Department of Homeland Security  
Washington, DC  20529  

Ref:  DHS Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044  

I am the Director of the Office of International Faculty and Staff Services at the 
University of Wisconsin-Madison and am writing to comment on the 1 February  2007 
proposed rule “Adjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit Application 
and Petition Fee Schedule.”  UW-Madison enrolls approximately 3,500 international 
students and hosts over 1,200 international faculty, academic staff and visiting scholars 
each year.  Many are accompanied by their dependents. 

The proposed fee increases represent an excessive burden on international students and 
scholars, as well as the educational institutions with which they are affiliated.  While I 
understand the need to fund much needed improvements in USCIS customer service, the 
burden should not be placed disproportionately on the beneficiaries, many of whom have 
limited financial resources.  UW-Madison departments, students and employees file over 
1,000 petitions to the USCIS each year.  

o  The University employs nearly 400 internationals in H-1B, O-1 and TN 

status.  The proposed fee increase for the form I-129 is from $190 to $320, 
a 68 percent increase.  These fees are on top of the required $500 data 
collection and fraud prevention fee, which is not part of the fee schedule.  
Either the employee or the University pays the filing fee, but the 
University is required to pay the additional $500 fee, as well as the $1,000 
fee for Premium Processing.  Due to excessive USCIS delays in 
processing petitions, we are forced to pay for Premium Processing in a 
large number of cases, resulting in an excessive financial burden on a state 
institution with limited financial resources.  

o  The dependents of our international employees must apply for extension 

of their stay on form I-539, the fee for which is proposed to increase from 
$200 to $300, a 50% increase.  Since the dependents of H-1Bs, O-1s and 
TNs are not eligible to be employed, and the university does not pay these 
fees, the increase will have a severe impact on families.   

o  Well over half of our 850 J-1 scholars bring dependents with them, and 

many of those dependents apply for employment authorization on form I-
765. The near-doubling of the I-765 fee, from $180 to $340, will have a 

 
         
significant financial impact on them.  Similarly, it will affect the over 500 
F-1 students who apply for Optional Practical Training each year, as well 
as the dependents of our J-1 students.  

o  Each year, UW-Madison files up to 50 applications for permanent 

residence on behalf of our faculty and permanent academic staff.  The fee 
increase from $195 to $475, 143 percent, in the I-140 immigrant petition 
for alien worker, as well as the near-tripling of the I-485 application fee 
for adjustment of status to permanent residence, from $325 to $905, will 
have a very significant impact on our international employees because the 
university does not pay these fees.  

The proposed increase in the I-485 fee is partly offset by the fact that it is 
accompanied by the elimination of additional filing fees for form I-765 for 
work authorization and I-131 for Advance parole.  However, the inclusion 
of those fees in the proposed new I-485 fee means that they would have to 
be paid by those who do not require the benefit.  Virtually all of the 
employees for whom we file for permanent residence are in H-1B status, 
and the vast majority of them maintain their H-1B status throughout the 
adjustment of status process.  Therefore, inclusion of the fees for the I-131 
and I-765 in the I-485 fee represents a huge increase in fees for which they 
derive no benefit whatsoever.   

While I understand that USCIS is permitted by law to recover the full cost of its services 
through fees, and indeed has no other option unless Congress appropriates funds for the 
operation of the agency, the fees should be calculated to recover the actual cost of 
processing the application or petition.  Congress needs to appropriate funds to cover the 
costs of future improvements in technology and business processes; beneficiaries should 
not have to bear the burden.   

Furthermore, since many of the forms serve multiple purposes, USCIS needs to give 
consideration to assessing different fees for the various purposes of the form.  The I-765 
is a prime example.  The cost of adjudicating an F-1 student’s request for Optional 
Practical Training is far less than, for example, an initial application for Temporary 
Protected Status.  All background checks for the student have already been completed 
and the school has certified that the student is eligible through SEVIS.  Similarly, when 
an I-539 for extension of stay for an H-4 dependent of an H-1B is submitted concurrently 
with the I-129, there is little or no adjudication required, as compared to an individual 
who is applying for a change from one nonimmigrant status to another. 

Apart from the direct impact of the excessive fees, they are contrary to clearly expressed 
U.S. policies.  The President, the Secretary of State, and indeed the Secretary of 
Homeland Security, have expressed clearly and often the high value that the United 
States places on attracting international students and scholars to this country.  The United 
States reaps immeasurable benefits—for our foreign policy, our students’ education, our 
economy, our competitiveness, and our public diplomacy—from attracting the best and 

brightest minds and the next generation of world leaders to America’s educational 
institutions. 

Thank you for the opportunity to comment.  

Sincerely,  

Deborah Ahlstedt, Director  
International Faculty and Staff Services  
University of Wisconsin-Madison