From: Michael T. Carrillo [mailto:mtcarrillo@cox.net]  
Sent: Friday, February 02, 2007 9:51 AM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: USCIS-2006-0044 

I understand from various news sources that the stated goal of this proposal is to reduce 
processing times by “up to 20%”.  What most of the American public will fail to realize is that such 
a move would not achieve this goal so much through increased resources in the hands of the 
USCIS, but rather through a simple economic manipulation of supply and demand wherein you 
make the cost of legal immigration prohibitively high for a large percentage of those who are able 
to afford the current fee structure. 

It goes without saying that most of the public will focus exclusively on this measure’s impact on 
the issue of Mexican immigrants.  I have no doubt that most of the comments you have received 
are therefore positive, since anything that gives the appearance of making it harder for Mexican 
nationals to get into this country (legally or otherwise) currently seems to enjoy a great deal of 
popular support.  What most of those folks do not understand (or choose to ignore) is that the 
current problem with illegal Mexican immigrants is largely due to the current cost of legal 
immigration, and the near impossibility of successfully navigating the convoluted immigration 
bureaucracy without hiring expensive legal advisors. 

I believe this measure will provoke an increase in the number of Mexican immigrants who choose 
to take the risks of illegal immigration over the costs and difficulties of legal immigration.  That 
means more deportations and incarcerations, more National Guard and Border Patrol staff and 
equipment, and ultimately a more permeable border for those who might wish to enter the U.S. in 
order to do us harm… and in the end, you’ll still have the same six month backlog in processing 
petitions. 

If you truly want to fix this problem of funding you seem to have, you need to do two things: 

First, overhaul the bureaucracy!  A form that asks applicants “Are you coming to the U.S. to 
overthrow the government? Yes/No” is not going to protect our country; but the cost of printing, 
transporting, processing, and storing that form will bleed the USCIS of funds that could be put to 
much better use. 

Second, get some tax dollars!  With the current popularity of measures to secure American 
borders it seems at least possible (if not actually easy) to get legislation passed that allocates tax 
money to bolster the USCIS coffers. 

As a second generation American of Mexican descent, and husband to a legal Mexican 
immigrant, the security of our borders is of great concern to me; not because of the sensationalist 
myth of the illegal Mexican immigrant destroying the American economy or culture, but because a 
permeable border is an open invitation to those who would come with the intent of destroying the 
American people.  I can only hope that you who have been charged with the responsibility of 
preventing this are in the positions you are in because you genuinely strive to do what’s right; to 
seek out and eliminate real threats, rather than play to the under-informed fears of an increasingly 
xenophobic populace. 

Regards, 
Michael T. Carrillo