ft?.-/?'-.2007

Director,  Regulatory Management Division
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration  Services
Department of Homeland  Security
111 Massachusetts  Avenue, NW,  3rd Floor
Washington,  DC 20529

RE: DHS Docket No.  USCIS-2006-0044

sff&£ 

I,  f>$/' 
am writing to express my opposition of the United
States  Citizenship  and Immigration  Services'  (USCIS)  recent  proposal to increase the
initial start-up fee for the citizenship and naturalization process  from  $400 to $675.  This
69% increase puts an even greater  burden on hardworking and eligible legal permanent
residents who wish to become United  States citizens and participate  fully  in this great
nation.

With the increase  proposed  by the USCIS,  a family of four would be confronted with a
bill amounting to $2,700.  This fee is unfair and contradictory to President Bush's recent
emphasis on upholding our nation's  values and tradition that welcomes  and "assimilates"
new arrivals.  I do agree that the application process  should  include a "reasonable  fee;"
yet, I strongly believe that our system for funding  immigration services  in the United
States should be a partnership and not a hindrance on the hardworking residents that wish
to become American Citizens.  In the past, Congress has appropriated  monies to assist  the
USCIS  in facing challenges  such as its application processing backlog.  It is now time for
the USCIS to act again.  The USCIS must act as a leader and  ask President Bush and
Congress to include  more appropriation funds in the federal budget.

Currently, there are more than 2.3 million legal permanent residents in California, and
about 8 million nationwide, who are eligible to apply for U.S. Citizenship.  Statistics
further  show that about half of those who are eligible to naturalize are Latino.  A recent
study conducted by the NALEO  Education Fund found that the three  major barriers to
naturalization are: the lack of adequate and reliable information, exam preparation
(language) and cost.  Concurrently, U.S. Census data tells us that about three out of four
Mexican  and Central American non-citizen households (74%)  have annual incomes of
incomes of less than $25,000.  Thus, increasing the initial start-up fee for the citizenship
and naturalization process  will only result in a devastating and unjust  barrier for millions
of residents pursuing the American Dream.  For these reasons,  I strongly oppose the
USCIS'  proposed fee increase.

Thank you,

(signature)

Address: