April 2nd, 2007 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
US Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Ave. NW, 3rd Floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

RE: DHS Docket # USCIS-2006-0044 
Proposed rule—Adjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit Application 
and Petition Fee Schedule 

On behalf of Hate Free Zone, I am writing to express our strong opposition to the 
increase to immigration and naturalization fees currently proposed by US Citizenship and 
Immigration Services (USCIS).   

Hate Free Zone is an immigrant rights organization founded after September 11th to 
respond to increasing rates of violence and discrimination targeting immigrants of color, 
specifically Muslim, Sikh, Middle Eastern, and South Asian immigrants.  Now in our 
fifth year, we continue to advance the fundamental principles of democracy and justice at 
the local, state, and national levels by building power within immigrant communities, in 
collaboration with key allies.   

Our work focuses on the greater Seattle area of Washington State, a region and state 
experiencing substantial demographic shifts.  Immigrants have played an important role 
in this population shift.  For instance, from 1990 to 2000, Washington’s foreign born 
population almost doubled.  As a result, Washington State now has the tenth largest 
foreign born population in the nation. It is also ranked fourth in refugee resettlement and 
first in secondary migration of refugees. According to the 2005 American Community 
Survey, the foreign born represented 12% of Washington State’s residents.  

Fortunately, Seattle has the third lowest percentage of immigrants living without U.S. 
citizenship. This means that immigrants in Seattle have been fairly effective at gaining 
citizenship and fall just behind immigrants in San Francisco and New York, where only 
47.3% and 49.4% (respectively) of all foreign born residents are living without 
citizenship. Other cities are facing much more serious situations. In Raleigh, North 
Carolina and Nashville, Tennessee, for example, over 70% of the foreign born population 
is living without citizenship.  However, 58% of Washington State’s foreign born are not 
residents.   

In contrast to these high percentages of non-citizens, interest in citizenship is high.  For 
instance, in the first three months of 2006, the Dept. of Homeland Security received 19% 
more applications than the same period last year.  A recent study in Illinois of 793 
immigrants throughout the State points to one possible explanation for this high interest 
in citizenship, finding that most immigrants want to become citizens in order to access 
better economic opportunities.   

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Despite this interest in citizenship, there are currently 8 million immigrants who are 
eligible to naturalize, but have not because of barriers.  Economic forces likely play a 
substantial role in this startling number.  For instance, un-naturalized immigrants earn 
less than naturalized citizens, with 50% of immigrant workers earning less than 200% of 
minimum wage (compared to 1/3 of native workers).  In Washington State, the foreign 
born population living in poverty grew by 99% between 1990 and 2000. 36% earn less 
than $25,000, with an average wage of $14,000.   

In the face of these significant economic burdens, the cost of citizenship and other 
immigration services has steadily risen over the last two decades.  Despite this recent 
trend, the proposed fee increase of naturalization is particularly jarring.  As recently as 
1998, the cost to apply for citizenship was $95.  In 2002, it rose from $250 to $310.  
Current fees are now $400, representing a fourfold increase in the past eight years.  Now 
USCIS is proposing a further increase of 70%, to $675.   

For this reason, Hate Free Zone asks that USCIS reconsider its proposed fee increases 
and look to other options to improve service delivery and argue that the burden of paying 
for such improvements should not rest solely with immigrants who are already struggling 
to pay agency costs.   

Sincerely, 

Hate Free Zone