Director, Regulatory Management Division 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Ave., NW, 3rd floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

RE:   DHS Docket # USCIS-2006-0044 
Proposed rule – Adjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit 
Application and Petition Fee Schedule 

To Whom it May Concern: 

I write to strongly oppose the increase of immigration and naturalization fees that the 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) proposed on February 1, 2007.  
Every day immigrants and refugees already struggle to pay immigration fees.  The steep 
increases proposed by USCIS would make it much more difficult to gain permanent 
resident status, reunite with family members, and become a U.S. citizen.  USCIS should 
be helping immigrants become citizens, not making it harder. 

My parents brought my brother and me to this country to give us a better opportunity we 
would never have in our country, Peru. Through  many years I saw my parents’ work 2 
and sometimes 3 jobs to put food on the table and give my brother and me the best they 
could. And now my brothers and I are 2 professionals in our community and contribute as 
responsible and good citizens. Now it’s my parents turn to something for them. They 
need to apply for their citizenship and take advantage from the benefits a citizen of the 
United Sates receives, such as the right to vote. But with this outrageous proposal of 
higher rates, how can they take advantage of this?  They worked in low paying jobs that 
did not offer pension and retirement plans or a chance to save for such a great expense as 
this. Please consider my story and don’t vote for the increase as many of us can’t afford 
it.  

USCIS claims that the fee increase is necessary to improve service, and USCIS definitely 
needs to improve service.  While I applaud USCIS’s efforts to improve service, I do not 
think that the entire cost should rest on immigrants who are already paying taxes, 
working hard, and struggling to pay high fees while receiving poor service.   

Immigration and citizenship are public goods that benefit our entire country and that we 
as a nation should help pay for.  Immigrants work hard, pay taxes, and help revitalize our 
communities.  In becoming citizens, immigrants demonstrate their strong commitment to 
their new home country by learning English, gaining knowledge about American history 
and government, and swearing allegiance to the United States.  We should be 
encouraging immigrants to become part of our community by gaining legal status and 
becoming citizens, not setting up barriers that block their path and keep them out.   

For all these reasons, I strongly oppose the proposed fee increases and urge USCIS to 
reconsider this proposal, and to seek other sources of funding for its operations, rather 
than add more burdens on immigrants.  Thank you for your consideration. 

Sincerely, 
Rossana E. Villagra