From: Kathleen Anich [mailto:kaanich@student.lsc.edu]  
Sent: Thursday, March 29, 2007 1:56 PM 
To: OSComments 
Cc: ranich@smdc.org 
Subject: USCIS Fee Increase 
Importance: High 

I am writing to comment on the proposed fee increases for USCIS adoption-related applications.   

My husband and I are currently in the early stages of international adoption, and hope to adopt a 
child from Colombia.  We are not wealthy people, but firmly believe in helping those that are 
helpless, including children in foreign nations that do not have the means to care for abandoned 
children.   

We know that we will go deeply into debt to fund the adoption, and are prepared to do so in order 
to bring a child into our family.  However, I'm concerned that the USCIS feels it is necessary to 
increase the fees necessary to do that 66 percent this year!  I do understand that fees need to be 
increased to improve programs and keep up with inflation, but I have a very hard time 
understanding why, with a department that is currently functioning with the fees it charges now, 
requires a 66% increase to provide those same services.  I work for a non-profit organization and 
we do not get to increase fees, so we find more productive ways of doing things.  I learned very 
early on in my career that sometimes throwing more money at a situation can actually make it 
worse, as it allows poorly performing areas to cover up their inadequacies, when in fact they 
should be changing their processes. 

I believe the needs of this high of an increase should be looked at again, and much more closely.  
The vast majority of people paying these fees are not wealthy people that are after something 
frivolous, they are trying to do the "right thing" and give good homes to needy children, and have 
them become American citizens.  The more difficult you make this by increasing fees, the less 
people will be able to afford to do this.   

I hope that you will take my comments into consideration when considering this fee increase. 

Thank you for your time, 

Ryan & Kathleen Anich 
603 28th Street 
Cloquet, MN  55720