From: mail.relay@mailmanager.net [mailto:mail.relay@mailmanager.net] On Behalf Of Sara 
Allaei 
Sent: Sunday, April 01, 2007 11:19 PM 
To: USCIS Comments 
Subject: DHS Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044 - USCIS Fee Increase Comment 

Sara Allaei 
902 West New York Street, ES 2126 
Indianapolis, IN 46202 

April 1, 2007 

USCIS Comments 

Dear USCIS Comments: 

These comments represent the views of the Office of International Affairs 
at Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis (IUPUI), a large 
urban research university that is home to a community of about 1500 
international students and scholars who will be directly affected by the 
fee increases outlined in the February 1, 2007, proposed rule "Adjustment 
of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit Application and Petition Fee 
Schedule."  

The proposed fee increases are so extreme they will act as a further 
disincentive for international students and scholars to study and work in 
the United States.  (Note that the United Kingdom recently announced that 
it was REDUCING its visa application fees.) In light of the important role 
that international students and scholars play in advancing the 
competitiveness of the US in the global economy, the USCIS and the US 
Congress must reconsider the role of appropriated funds to meet the 
administrative needs of the agency.  

We ask that fees be reduced to the actual cost of processing the 
application or petition. At the same time, we see some significant flaws 
in the way this approach is being applied to various types of applications. 

1.      The formula for determining the processing costs does not take into 
consideration the multiple uses of certain forms.  For example, consider 
Form I-765.  This form can be used by a variety of visa-holders, including 
Asylees/Refugees, F-1 Students, Employment-Based Nonimmigrants, 
Family-Based Nonimmigrants, and Adjustment of Status Categories.  The 
required documentation varies by each status, and each benefit requested.  

•       use of the I-765 to apply for Optional Practical Training (OPT) by F-1 
students. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nearly all F-1 students studying at our institution want to gain practical 
employment experience in their field of study, and we recommend OPT for 
150-200 students each year.  The students' eligibility for this benefit is 
not difficult to determine.  If they have been enrolled full-time for the 
prior two semesters, and have not violated their F-1 status, they are 
eligible for OPT.  This simple adjudication does not warrant a fee of 
$340.  It would be very difficult for some students to pay this fee at the 
end of their studies, before they have had a chance to begin working and 
earning, and is an unjust burden to place on students. 

Currently, F-1 students eligible for Curricular Practical Training (CPT) 
are authorized for this employment by the Designated School Official 
(DSO), and students need not submit Form I-765 to pursue CPT employment. 
As stated above, the criteria for OPT are very simple, much less complex 
in fact than for CPT. The USCIS should amend its F-1 regulations to permit 
DSOs to approve OPT for F-1 students as well. This would relieve the USCIS 
from processing tens of thousands of routine EAD applications each year 
and provide DSOs with the authority to provide timely, accurate OPT 
authorizations to students. 

In fact, it used to be possible for DSOs to approve OPT in accordance with 
agency regulations.  The benefits of reinstituting and expanding this 
process are obvious:  no application, no processing, no fee, one less task 
to be performed by the USCIS, more time to devote to what the agency 
really needs to do.  There is no obvious public policy reason for USCIS to 
require agency approval for OPT.  With the Student and Exchange Visitor 
Information System (SEVIS) now fully in place, it would be easy to devolve 
this responsibility back to the schools.  Yet the cost of processing this 
unnecessary application process continues to drive up the fee, while 
creating delays for students and employers. 

•       Applications for Employment Authorization based on Economic hardship. 

Each year our office works with a number of students who have suffered 
unanticipated financial hardships.  One of the few resources available to 
these students is the ability to apply for Economic Hardship employment 
authorization.  For students facing severe financial hardship, the 
proposed fee of $340 would make it nearly impossible for students to use 
this emergency benefit.  Students whose financial sponsors have been hit 
by illness or natural disaster struggle to pay the current fee of $180.  
In light of the nature of this benefit, We would suggest that the I-765 
fee be waived for all F-1 student applicants applying for authorization 
based on Economic Hardship.  We note that this form is included on the 
proposed list of "applications for which an individual fee waiver based on 
inability to pay may be granted"; however, applications that require an 
individual fee waiver request are often delayed, making the necessity of a 
fee waiver request impractical for students in need of immediate 
assistance. Relatively small numbers of students apply for this benefit, 
and it would be more logical to exempt these applicants from the fee 
across the board. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.      While we do not know all of the procedures that are followed by USCIS 
when adjudicating an application, we think it is fair to suggest that most 
renewal applications require less work than new applications.  

For example, consider the H-1B visa.  The initial application certainly 
involves a complex adjudication process.  However, when circumstances of 
the employment have not changed, the employer petitions for an extension 
of H-1B status without amendment of the position.  In this case, there is 
no need to re-adjudicate the H-1B eligibility of the position. Because far 
less work is required to adjudicate the extension I-129, the fee should be 
adjusted for extensions. 

Please also consider the following information describing the national 
scope of this issue: 

Many colleges and universities pay the USCIS fees for the green card 
process for the person being hired.  It is less common for the fees for 
the family members, such as spouse and children, to be paid for by the 
colleges or universities.  The increases in fees will have a severe impact 
on families.  Academic salaries are frequently well below those paid for 
similar positions in industry, and the significantly higher fees will 
present a significant burden to families with the modest living standard 
afforded by academic employment. 

Apart from the direct impact of the excessive fees, they are contrary to 
clearly expressed U.S. policies.  The President, the Secretary of State, 
and indeed the Secretary of Homeland Security have expressed clearly the 
high value that the US places on attracting international students and 
scholars to this country.  The United States reaps immeasurable 
benefits—for our foreign policy, our students' education, our economy, our 
competitiveness, and our public diplomacy—from attracting the best and 
brightest minds and the next generation of world leaders to America's 
educational institutions. 

Regrettably, the increased fees will reinforce the inefficiencies and 
dysfunctionalities USCIS inherited from INS when the Department of 
Homeland Security was created and perpetuate the impression among 
international students and scholars that they are not truly welcome in the 
US.  The solution to correcting these systemic problems is not to keep 
raising fees in an attempt to finance a twenty-first century agency.  
Unfortunately, to meet its statutory requirements, USCIS is turning to its 
only steady source of funding, its filers and petitioners, to finance the 
modernization of its systems.  While that is understandable, it is not 
acceptable as a matter of public policy, because it prices statutory 
benefits out of the reach of those who need them.  

While we understand that USCIS is permitted by law to recover the full 
cost of its services through fees, and indeed has no other option so long 
as Congress is unwilling to appropriate funds for the operation of the 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
agency, we ask that the fees be reduced to the actual cost of processing 
the application or petition.  Meanwhile, we would ask Congress to step up 
to its responsibility for fixing the untenable situation that drives these 
fee increases. 

Thank you for the opportunity to comment. 

Sincerely, 

Sara K Allaei, Assistant Dean & Director for International Services 
317.274.3261 

This message has been verified by CapwizXC as authentic and sent by this 
individual.  Authentication ID: [FPY83Pc7] 

Changed message text: 89.5%