Fax  Transmission 

1145  Wilshire  Blvd . Zm Floor 
Los Angeles. CA 90017 
Tel(213)977-75W 
Fax (213)977-7595 
w . a p a l c .  org 

M a r   30 2007  17: 17 

R P R L C  

ASIANPACIFIC 
AMERICAN 
LEGAL CENTER 
-OF  - 
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 

Date: 

3ik44@ 

From:  Mark Yoshida 

Staff Attorney and Program Director, lrnrnigrat~on & Cit~zenship Project 
Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern Californ~a 
1 145 Wilshire Blvd., 2"  Floor, Los Angeles. CA 90017 
T: (213)977-7500 ext 247 

F. (213)977-7500 

E: rnyoshlda@apalc.org 

Faxed: 3 page@) plus l h s  mver sheet 

Additional message: 

This transmiss~on is intended solelv for the use of the individual and/or omanization addressed above.  It may 
contaln confoential and pr~vilegea informa:~on  If  yo^  rece;ved this transm7ssion in error  pease del.ver ~t to  the 
intenaed recipient and notify tne sender  mmediately at Ihe awve telephone number or  e-mail adaress 
T,?ank you! 

M a r   30 2007  17: 17 

R P R L C  

AS~ANPACIFIC 
A M E R I C A N  
LEGAL CENTER 
OF 
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 

March 30,2007 

** Via Fax ** 

1145 W~lshire Blvd , Second Floor 
ias Angeles. CA 90017 
(213) 977-7500 * Fax (213) 977-7595 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Securit 2' 
11 1 Massachusetts Ave., NW, 3'  floor 
Washington DC 20529 
Fax (866)466-5370 

Re: DHS Docket # USCIS-2006-0044, Proposed rule-  Adjustment of the Immigration and 
Naturalization Benefit Application and Petition Fee Schedule 

Dear Madam or Sir: 

Founded in 1983, the Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern California 

(APALC) is a nonprofit organization dedicated to advocating for civil rights, providing legal 
services and education, and building coalitions to positively influence and impact Asian Pacific 
Americans and to create a more equitable and harmonious society.  -4PALC is affiliated with the 
Asian American Justice Center in Washington, D.C. 

Over our 24-year history, APALC has served tens of thousands of inhviduals and their 

families with immigration needs, many involving naturalization applications.  Although we 
direct our services to lower-income Asian Americans, approximately a quarter to a third of our 
clients come from Latin American nations.  This experience, combined with our work with 
dedicated community-based organizations throughout greater Los Angeles,  allows us to 
understand the concerns and realities of immigrant communities in a way that governmental 
agencies often cannot or will not.  More importantly, it compels us to strenuously object to the 
application and petition fee increases proposed by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS).  The proposed  fee increase plan is unfair and untimely to immigrants, and ultimately 
detrimental to the needs of our immigration system and our nation as a whole. 

As a community based organization, we are troubled by the sheer size and scope of the 

increases.  Under the new fee schedule; citizenship fees would jump from $400 ($330 application 
fee plus $70 biometric fee) to $675 ($595 application fee plus $80 biometric fee), an increase of 
69%.  Similarly, fees would be raised for 37 other immigration and naturalization petitions and 
applications at an average increase of 66%.  Furthermore, it appears that the fee hikes for all 
targeted benefits will be implemented at once rather than being spread out over a period of time. 

The proposed increases, which in some cases double the current fees, would put 

M a r   30 2007  17: 17 

R P R L C  

213 977 7595 

permanent resident status, family reunification, and citizenship beyond the reach of the typical 
immigrant.  Many of the immigrants and refugees we work with on a daily basis already struggle 
to pay the existing fees, and would not be able to afford higher prices.  Our nation benefits from 
those who choose to make the U.S. their home; USCIS should be building bridges for them to 
move toward citizenship and full integration into American society, rather than devising 
ecouomic barriers to our cherished immigrant tradition. 

While virtually all immigrant communities will likely be significantly affected by 
USCIS's  proposal, abrupt fee hikes of such magnitude are expected to have a disproportionate 
and detrimental impact on the Asian American community.  As the following figures reflect, 
Asian Americans constitute a large portion of USCIS's  customer base: 

39% of people who nat~ualized in 2005 were born in Asia. 
Five of the top ten countries of birth for new U.S. citizens are Asian (Philippines, India, 
Vietnam, People's  Republic of Chma, and Korea). 
36% of people who became lawful permanent residents (LPRs) in 2005 were born in 
Asia. 
Five of the top ten countries of birth for new LPRs are Asian (India, China, Philippines, 
Vietnam, and Korea). 
A significant number of asylees and refugees came from Asian countries such as Laos 
(16% of refugees admitted in 2005) and Chna (21% of asylum cases granted in 2005) 

The impact on individual immigrants and their families will be even more profound, as 

the following examples illustrate: 

A mamed couple applying for citizenship at the same time would have to have $1,350 at 
their disposal in order to achieve their American dream together.  A family of four would 
face a $2,700 naturalization bill or be forced to file separately, an affront to our nation's 
commitment to family. 

A family of four asylees, often among the most economically challenged immigrants due 
to the trauma of persecution suffered in their homeland, must somehow come up with 
$3,620 to apply for legal permanent residence. 

o  To add insult to injury, USCIS intends to categorically eliminate fee waivers for 

adjustment applications, denying asylees who wish to become permanent 
residents the opportunity to qualify for a fee waiver despite the financial 
difficulties they face.  USCIS argues that adjustment applicants must file 
affidavits of support which "demonstrate that they can support themselves and 
will not become a public charge," thereby obviating the need for fee waivers. 
However, the agency's rationale fails when applied to asylees, who are exempt 
from the public charge ground of inadmissibility.  8 C.F.R. ยง209,2(a)(l)(v). 

By the same reasoning, a U.S.  citizen mother who wishes to be reunited with her adult 
so11 &om the Philippines would not be able to obtain a waiver of the $355 initial petition 
fee.  USCIS's proposal would eliminate fee waivers for such petitions since, as above, 

M a r   30 2007  17: 17 

-- 

R P R L C  

waivers are not consistent with the affidavit of support requirement.  However, the 
proposal ignores the reality of the existing immigration system wherein L.S.  citizens and 
permanent residents first file petitions, then wait years - sometimes decades -before  the 
affidavit would be required for immigration to take place.  In this example, the U.S. 
citizen mother faces a 14-year wait before she would even need to show her ability to 
support her immigrating son.  The absence of a fee waiver at the petition stage would 
unfairly preclude many families from reuniting at all. 

The fee hike and the blanket ban on fee waivers on certain applications and petitions 

would be particularly burdensome to the roughly 12% of the Asian American community who 
live below the poverty level. 

Given the speed, scope, and scale of the proposed fee increase, we believe that USCIS 
customers must receive faster and greater improvements in processing times and service.  The 
fee increase proposal itself does not appear to set forth any concrete targets for progress in these 
areas.  In its press release, USCIS claimed that the fee hlke, "if  irnp1.emented in full by this 
summer," would result in "a  20 percent reduction in average application processing times by the 
end of fiscal year 2009.''  The numbers, however, do not add up: a hike in prices by an average 
of 66% now in return for a 20% processing time reduction two to three years down the road does 
not appear to be "the  type of exceptional immigration service that our nation expects or 
deserves," as USCIS asserts. 

Finally, we believe that certain improvements which USCIS hopes to finance through fee 

increases would be better addressed through the normal budget and appropriation process.  For 
example, while we support USCIS's  efforts to improve its fraud detection capacity and to 
modernize its business and technological infrastructure, we strenuously object to piling the 
burden of these efforts on the backs of immigrants and their families.  These improvements will 
benefit the immigration system and the national interest as a whole, but the budgetary process 
remains the best mechanism for Congress, USCIS, its customers, and other interested parties to 
determine how such functions would be optimally funded. 

We urge USCIS to reconsider the proposed fee increase and to seek the necessary 

improvements horn Congress.  We trust that the agency 
funding for infrastructure and s e ~ c e  
will work with immigrant communities and with Congress to develop a functioning, effective 
immigration system that will benefit all those who call America home. 

Thank you. 

Sincerely, 

Jinmigr  tion & Citizenship Unit 

1