Robert Pesek 
2218 Rownd St. 
Cedar Falls, IA 50613-5672 

March 20, 2007 

USCIS Comments 

Dear USCIS Comments: 

I am writing to you as an international educator in opposition to the 
February 1, 2007, proposed rule "Adjustment of the Immigration and 
Naturalization Benefit Application and Petition Fee Schedule."  The 
proposed fee increases are so exorbitant they will act as a disincentive 
for international students and scholars to study and work in the United 
States.  USCIS must reconsider the role of appropriated funds to meet the 
administrative needs of the agency.  

International students and scholars, and campus officials that employ 
them, file tens of thousands of petitions and applications with USCIS 
annually. 

Apart from the direct impact of the excessive fees, they are contrary to 
clearly expressed U.S. policies.  The President, the Secretary of State, 
and indeed the Secretary of Homeland Security have expressed clearly and 
often the high value that the United States places on attracting 
international students and scholars to this country.  The United States 
reaps immeasurable benefits—for our foreign policy, our students' 
education, our economy, our competitiveness, and our public diplomacy—from 
attracting the best and brightest minds and the next generation of world 
leaders to America's educational institutions. 

Regrettably, the increased fees will reinforce the inefficiencies and 
dysfunctionalities USCIS inherited from INS when the Department of 
Homeland Security was created.  The solution to correcting the systemic 
problems that plague the agency is not to keep raising fees in a futile 
attempt to finance a twenty-first century agency.  Unfortunately, to meet 
its statutory requirements, USCIS is turning to its only steady source of 
funding, its filers and petitioners, to finance the required modernization 
of its systems.  While that is understandable, it is not acceptable as a 
matter of public policy, because it prices statutory benefits out of the 
reach of those who need them.  

While I understand that USCIS is permitted by law to recover the full cost 
of its services through fees,  I ask that the fees be reduced to the 
actual cost of processing the application or petition.  

Thank you for the opportunity to comment. 

Sincerely, 

Robert Pesek 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
This message has been verified by CapwizXC as authentic and sent by this 
individual.  Authentication ID: [c6493MII] 

Changed message text: 66.3%