Office for International Students and Scholars 

March 29, 2007 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Avenue, NW., 3rd Floor 
Washington, DC  20529 

RE:  DHS Docket NO. USCIS-2006-0044 

Dear Director: 

I am writing to comment on the proposed rule published in the Federal Register on February 1, 2007 by 
the US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) to increase fees for several applications.   

I am writing on behalf of Washington University in St. Louis, a private research university.  As the 
Director of the Office for International Students and Scholars, the office which is responsible for the 
students and scholars from other countries, I oversee the filing of various immigration applications on 
behalf of Washington University.  The University has approximately 2,500 students, postdoctoral 
scholars, researchers, professors and other employees on nonimmigrant statuses, including F-1 Student, J-
1 Exchange Visitor, and H-1B Specialty Workers.   In addition, Washington University sponsors between 
30 and 50 employees for employment-based permanent residence every year.  I have over 20 years of 
experience in filing university-sponsored applications with federal immigration agencies.   

There are substantial increases in fees for the following applications, which are of concern to Washington 
University: 
• 
• 
• 
• 

I-765, is proposed to increase from $180 to $340; 
I-140 is proposed to increase from $195 to $280; 
I-485 is proposed to increase from $325 to $905; and 
I-539 is proposed to increase from $200 to $300 

The USCIS indicates that these fees are to be increased to cover the all costs for the services of the 
USCIS.  I believe that the only actual costs of processing the applications or petitions should be covered 
through the user fees.  There are other costs for the maintenance of the immigration system that should 
not fall on the users.  My concern is that the considerably higher costs of the immigration system will 
drive our international students, faculty, and researchers to other countries.  There is a strong national 
benefit to the U.S. of having international students and scholars -- benefits to our foreign policy, the 
education of U.S. citizen students, and to our economy.  In the current environment of globalization, the 
U.S. cannot afford to fall behind in the competition for the best and brightest international students and 
scholars.  The importance of the international students and scholars to the U.S. has frequently been 
recognized by the President, the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Homeland Security.   

The proposed rule would exempt certain applications from fees.  I do not question the need to provide 
these benefits without fees to those users.  However, this is an example where other users will subsidize 
the fees for those who are fee-exempt.  The exemptions from these fees are a matter of public policy, so 
the cost of the processing of those applications should be covered through appropriated funds, rather than 
from other users of the immigration system. 

Washington University in St. Louis, Campus Box 1083, One Brookings Drive, St. Louis, Missouri 63130-4899 
(314) 935-5910, FAX: (314) 935-4075, oiss@wustl.edu, www.oisshome.wustl.edu 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Office for International Students and Scholars 

Besides the general issue of funding public policy through appropriated monies, rather than user fees, I 
have some specific comments related to the proposed fee increases for certain application types, 
specifically the I-765 and the I-485.   

The I-765 application is filed by many F-1 students to obtain work authorization for optional practical 
training (OPT).  The authority to grant OPT used to be carried out by Designated School Officials 
(DSOs), but this is now carried out by the USCIS.  Under the Student and Exchange Visitor Information 
System (SEVIS), this authorization could be delegated back to the DSOs, to decrease the costs in 
adjudicating the work permit applications.  The OPT applications are fairly routine and are usually 
approved by the USCIS, so there seems to be no benefit to overloading the immigration service centers 
with this type of applications.   

The substantial increase in the I-485 adjustment of status to permanent residence application has been 
justified on the basis that the work permit and advance parole permission are automatically included in 
the application.  In my experience, I have seen that many, if not most, of our applicants do not use the 
benefits of the work permit or the advance parole, as they have valid work permission and a valid visa 
under the H-1B status for the entire time they are going through the permanent residence process.  Thus, 
with these new fees, our applicants for permanent residence will be paying for benefits that they never 
intend to use.  I suggest that the work permit and advance parole application remain separate from the I-
485 application, so that those who need the benefits to work or travel outside the U.S. pay for such 
benefits, without penalizing those who will not use these benefits.   

In summary, I recognize the need to make adjustments to the fees to provide for additional funds to 
process the immigration applications.  However, I ask that the fees be set up to cover the actual cost of 
processing applications, rather than the entire cost of the immigration system.  I believe that Congress 
should provide funding to support the public policy priorities in the immigration system.   

I appreciate the opportunity to comment on this proposed rule. 

Sincerely, 

Kathy Steiner-Lang 
Director 

Washington University in St. Louis, Campus Box 1083, One Brookings Drive, St. Louis, Missouri 63130-4899 
(314) 935-5910, FAX: (314) 935-4075, oiss@wustl.edu, www.oisshome.wustl.edu