Ann Stewart 
3001 Mercer University Dr. 
Atlanta, GA 30341-4155 

March 8, 2007 

USCIS Comments 

Dear USCIS Comments: 

I am writing to you as an international educator in opposition to the 
February 1, 2007, proposed rule "Adjustment of the Immigration and 
Naturalization Benefit Application and Petition Fee Schedule."  The 
proposed fee increases are so out of proportion that they will act as a 
disincentive for international students and scholars to study and work in 
the United States.  USCIS must reconsider the role of appropriated funds 
to meet the administrative needs of the agency.  I ask that fees be 
reduced to the actual cost of processing the application or petition.  

International students and scholars, and campus officials that employ 
them, file tens of thousands of petitions and applications with USCIS 
annually, including: 

   •The near-doubling of the I-765 fee for international students in F 
status to apply for work authorization for Optional Practical Training, 
from $180 to $340.  If OPT is to be granted for two years, as proposed, 
then there should be an option for the student to request a one year OPT 
at the $180 rate and $340 for the 2 year OPT without the ability to renew 
the one year to the two year.  However, if the one year OPT is to remain 
then the $340 fee is without justifiable reason. 

   •The increases in the fees required in connection with change of status 
from F to H-1B, including the increase from $200 to $300 (a 50 percent 
increase) in the I-539 application to change nonimmigrant status for 
dependents and the increase from $190 to $320 (a 68% increase), in the 
I-129 petition for non-immigrant worker.  These fees are on top of the 
required data collection and fraud prevention fee, which is not part of 
the fee schedule. 

   •The huge increases in the fees required to adjust status from H-1B to 
legal permanent resident (green-card status), including:  the 
near-tripling of the I-485 application fee for permanent residence, from 
$325 to $905; and the increase from $195 to $475 (143% ) in the I-140 
immigrant petition for alien worker.  (The proposed increase in the I-485 
fee is partly offset by the fact that it is accompanied by the elimination 
of additional filing fees for work authorization and for permission to 
re-enter after traveling abroad.  However, the inclusion of those fees in 
the proposed new I-485 fee means that they would have to be paid even by 
those who do not expect to require the benefit.) 

Apart from the direct impact of the excessive fees, they are contrary to 
expressed U.S. policies.  The President, the Secretary of State, and the 
Secretary of Homeland Security have expressed clearly, and often, the high 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
value that the United States places on attracting international students 
and scholars to this country.  The United States reaps immeasurable 
benefits—for our foreign policy, our students' education, our economy, our 
competitiveness, and our public diplomacy—from attracting the best and 
brightest minds and the next generation of world leaders to America's 
educational institutions. 

The raising of the fees at the percentage indicated come at a time that 
the Asian market is already looking at ways to attract and capture this 
market by adding all English classes in their major universities.  The 
inpact of this will be felt in the years to come. 

The fact that USCIS operates on a fee-funded basis creates a built-in 
incentive to subsidize unnecessary work.  This creates an incentive for 
USCIS to approve charging a fee for processing  various request, which 
provides necessary income to finance broader USCIS operations. The I-765 
fee for Optional Practical Training is a classic example.  At one time it 
was possible for school officials designated by the INS to approve OPT in 
accordance with agency regulations.  The benefits of reinstituting and 
expanding this process speak for themselves:  no application, no 
processing, no fee, one less task to be performed by the agency, more time 
to devote to what the agency really needs to do.  There is no obvious 
public policy reason for USCIS to require agency approval for OPT today.  
With the Student and Exchange Visitor Information System (SEVIS) now fully 
in place, it would be easy to devolve this responsibility back onto the 
schools.  Yet the cost of processing this unnecessary application process 
continues to drive up the fee.  

While I understand that USCIS is permitted by law to recover the full cost 
of its services through fees, and indeed has no other option so long as 
Congress is unwilling to appropriate funds for the operation of the 
agency, I ask that the percentage of increase be reduced to the actual 
cost of processing the application or petition.  Meanwhile, I ask Congress 
to step up to its responsibility for fixing the untenable situation that 
drives these fee increases. 

Thank you for the opportunity to comment. 

Sincerely, 

Ann L. Stewart 
678-547-6109 

This message has been verified by CapwizXC as authentic and sent by this 
individual.  Authentication ID: [kdmjOFL8] 

Changed message text: 59.9%