-----Original Message----- 
From: mail.relay@mailmanager.net [mailto:mail.relay@mailmanager.net] On 
Behalf Of Thomas Dobbert 
Sent: Thursday, March 01, 2007 6:56 PM 
To: USCIS Comments 
Subject: DHS Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044 - USCIS Fee Increase Comment 

Thomas Dobbert 
7000 Dandini Blvd. 
Reno, NV 89512-3901 

March 1, 2007 

USCIS Comments 

Dear USCIS Comments: 

I am writing to you as an international educator and emigrant to this 
country. I am totally opposed to the February 1, 2007, proposed rule 
"Adjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit Application 
and Petition Fee Schedule."   

It seems to me we are "acting" as if we are opposed to illegal 
emigrants 

crossing the border from Mexico, but on the same token we make it as 
hard and expensive as possible to encourage people to come in through 
"official" ways.  

Many people will not be able to afford those fees and will therefore be 
illegal here. So what is the point? If USCIS is cash-strapped then they 
should try to clean up their act. I can tell you from personal 
experience that the legal process of immigrating is a nightmare! I went 
through it and now my wife is going through it. We are almost at a 
point to say that it is not worth it to come here anymore.  

We are both educated people and would like to contribute to this 
country 

but feel like as if our input is not wanted, whereas people who don't 
even speak English (and many times don't even make an effort) can get 
all the 

benefits they want. People who work for minimum wage, and are possibly 
here illegaly will not be able to afford these fees anymore, and as 
mentioned before, will stay illegal. Why don't we fight a "war on 
illegal emigrants?"  

Besides that, international students will not come here anymore because 
they will find similar education options in other countries for less 
money. So why bother with the U.S.? Do we really want this kind of 
"brain-drain" to continue? 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sincerely, 

Thomas Dobbert 
775-673-7000 

This message has been verified by CapwizXC as authentic and sent by 
this 

individual.  Authentication ID: [b0288VLE] 

Changed message text: 93.3%