To Whom it may concern: 

Please find below my comments regarding the increase in USCIS Filing fees.  

A rise in Adjustment of Status applications for asylees will seriously and 

1. 
negatively affect even small asylee families, who do not have the same 
accommodation refugee families have, such as not having to pay the filing fee, 
only the biometrics fee.  Asylee families should be eligible for the same 
advantages as refugee families, since they suffered the same kind of traumas 
before arriving on our shores, and they have menial jobs with small salaries 
when they first arrive. 

Furthermore, the I-485 requires other expenditures that raise the amount 

of money a poor asylee family must face:  physical examinations by a Civil 
Surgeon; photographs;  translation of documents.  The physical examination, for 
example, can be $200 per person, including for the youngest children.  That fee 
alone often holds large asylee families from even attempting the application to 
adjust. 

Even the postage cost is higher for a large family applying together. 

A rise in N-400 fees will seriously and negatively affect both large refugee 

2. 
and large asylee families.  Even at the present rate of $400 per person, many 
refugee and asylee families find it difficult, if not impossible, to come up with the 
fees.  Fee Waiver requirements are not adequately described, nor are there 
formal guidelines to help  determine if a Waiver request is reasonable.  Many of 
these families are afraid they will lose time if they apply for one.  Therefore, 
many refugee and asylee families who have severe financial problems do not 
even attempt to apply for naturalization. 

3. 
It is the belief of the staff at my agency that the higher fees will result in 
fewer applications (I-485s and N-400s), especially from the kind of applicant my 
agency sees.  How would that situation help increase income for the USCIS?  Our 
agency is BIA-accredited and must accept the indigent without charging any fee 
for our services.  Even the fees we do charge must be nominal.  Therefore, we 
get clients with very limited financial resources.  We expect that we will see 
fewer clients once the fees are raised. 

How will the fee increase shorten the time for background checks, one of 

4. 
the most common complaints I hear? Much extra time is lost, both to 
representatives and to the USCIS, because of the repeated requests for 
information from applicants who have waited a year or more without hearing 
anything about the adjudication of their applications.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What about the 800 number?  Will that service be improved with more 

5. 
funding from increased fees?  Will there be more agents answering the 
telephones, so that the waiting time might be reduced from the present 25 to 40 
minutes?  Will the people answering the calls be better trained so that they don't 
give out incorrect information?  Will there be more USCIS agents available to 
help with complicated issues? 

Charlotte Fox Zabusky, Director 
Pittsburgh Refugee and Immigrant Assistance Center 
Jewish Family and Children's Service 
5743 Bartlett Street 
Pittsburgh, PA 15217 
412-422-7200