0 4 / 0 2 / 2 0 0 7   1 7 : 2 0   FAX 2 0 6   6 9 4   5 7 7 7  

LUTHERAN COMMUNITY SERV. 

Lutheran 
Communiv 
Services 

North Puyel Soulid 
Area URice 
433 Minor Avenue  N 
Seattle, WA  98109-5439 
Pholic: (2061 694-5700 
Far: (206) 694-5777 

Wcbsitc:  www.lcsnw.org 
Email:  npsOlcsnw.org 

*Cascade People's Celiter 

Family Suppon,Contcrof 
Soul1 Slioliomlch Couniy 

-FamIas Undas 

.Grassroots  Colinectlons 

L a k o  Stcwons Family 
Center 

. Parcnl Line 

Permanency Pla~nnllig 
Foster Care 

. Refogoe B  llnniigrant 

Childron's Program 

-South Everett NeiOhborhood 
Center 

April 2,  2007 

Mr. Richard A.  Sloan Director 
Regulatory Management Division 
U.S.  Citizenship and Immigration Servlces 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Avenue,  N.W.,  3rd Floor 
Washington,  DC 20529 

I 
I  Dear Mr. Sloan: 

Re: DHS Docket # USCIS-2006-0044 
Proposed rule--  Adjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit 
Application and Petition Fee Schedule 

Lutheran Community Services Northwest, a non-profit social service agency,  is deeply 
concerned about the impact that the proposed fee increases by the U.S.  Citizenship and 
Immigration Services (USCIS)  will have on the unaccompanied minors we serve through the 
Unaccompanied Refugee Minor (URM)  foster care program.  At Lutheran Community Services 
Northwest we work with unaccompanied asylees,  refugees,  child victims of human trafncking, 
and special immigrant juveniles.  We are deeply concerned about the significant obstacle to 
reaching a place of stability and permanency the recently proposed increases will create for the 
children we serve. 

I n  Section IX:  Proposed Fee Adjustments,  USCIS is proposing a fee of $905 for an 1-485 
adjustment of status application,  representing an increase of $580 from the current fee of 
$325. This proposed fee will prevent many asylees and child trafficking victims from being able 
to apply for legal permanent residence, which will delay their eligibility to naturalize as U.S. 
Citizens.  Currently,  many asylee minors have considerable trouble paying the current $325 fee 
and will either wait to adjust,  sometimes years after they are eligible,  or request a fee waiver. 
Under this USCIS  proposal,  however, not only is the application fee undergoing a 178% 
increase,  USCIS is proposing to categorically eliminate the availability of Fee waivers for all I- 
485 adjustment of status applications, even for unaccompanied minors.  The only populatiorr 
that is able to avoid the damaging consequences of these Increase are the refugees adjusting 
status under INA ยง209(a) who will contlnue to be automatically exempt from the paying the I- 
485 application fee. 

I n  Section XI:  fee waivers of the proposed rule,  USCIS argues that because the likelihood of 
becoming a public charge is a ground of inadmissibility under INA 5212(a)(4),  allowing for a 
fee waiver for an adjustment applicatlan is inconsistent with the requirements of the benefit 
sought. When the applicant for permanent residence is an asylee or trafflcklng victim this 
rationale is inconsistent with USCIS'S mandate in INA ยง286(m) to offset the fee burden of 
"similar services provided without charge to asylum applicants or other immigrants."  Similar to 
refugees,  asylees and trafficking victims are eilgible for public assistance by virtue of their 
status,  which includes eligibility into URM foster care.  According to 8 C.F.R.  ยง209,2(a)(l)(v), 
the public charge ground of inadmissibility does not apply to asylees adjustlng status. For an 
asylee or trafficking victim,  seeking a need-based waiver for an 1-485 application is entirely 
consistent with the historical treatment of the population. The current policy is mindful of the 
desperate circumstances that force asylum seekers to flee their homes and the dire financial 

~

~

community services Norlhwest parnos with mciividliak, Ianiiies and colnmuilities for- health, jusiics  arid nope. 

~

~

~

~

h

t

 
0 4 / 0 2 / 2 0 0 7   1 7 : 2 1   FAX 2 0 6   6 9 4   5 7 7 7  

LUTHERAN COMMUNITY SERV. 

situation an asylee may face during the early stages of hislher new life in the United States. 
The 1-485 fee must also take this reality into consideration and,  at least,  provide waivers for 
those who most need the assistance. 

Lutheran Community Services Northwest thanks USCIS for continuing to exempt refugees 
adjusting their status under INA ยง209(a)  from paying the 1-485 adjustment of status 
application fee,  and for recognizing the hardship suffered by traf~cking victims by deciding to 
eliminate the $270 fee for an 1-914 Application for T Nonimmigrant Status.  However, thls does 
not alleviate the extraordinary burden that the proposed adjustment fees  will impose upon 
asylee and trafficked chlldren seeing to adjust status. Therefore,  Lutheran Community Services 
Northwest recommends that USCIS reevaluate the fee structure;  especlally the extraordinary 
increase, and institute a fee policy which is consistent,  reasonable and affordable for asylee 
minors and chlld victims of tramcking applying for adjustment of status.  Lutheran Communlty 
Services Northwest especially encourages USCIS to maintaln an accessible and clear fee waiver 
policy,  particularly for those populations, such as asylees or trafficking victims,  who receive 
public benefits by virtue of their status and/or are otherwise exempt from the public charge 
ground of inadmissibility. For example,  since asylees and trafficking victims are in similar 
compelling circumstances as refugees, they should receive the same automatic exemption 
from paying adjustment fees as refugees. 

USUS-proposed fee increases will be particularly harmful to one of the most vulnerable of 
immigrant populations; special immigrant juveniles,  who are undocumented minor$ who have 
been determined to be ellgible for long term foster care based on abuse,  neglect,  or 
abandonment. I n  order to obtain this benefit,  an SUS applicant must file a Form 1-360 self- 
petition, approval of which makes the minor Immediately eligible to adjust status by filing a 
Form 1-485. 

I n  Section IX:  Proposed Fee Adjustments,  Table 12: Current and Proposed Fees,  USCIS 
outlines the comparative costs of different beneflt appllcatlons. Currently an 1-360 self-petition 
costs the child applicant $190 and the 1-485 costs $325,  a total of $515,  though a minor may 
request a fee waiver for either the 1-360 or 1-485 if they are unable to afford this expense. 
Under the new USCIS proposal,  the fee for the 1-360 increases from $190 to $375 and the fee 
for the 1-485 Increases from $325 to $905,  for a total of $1280 for the two-step process. 
Besides these increases, the ~rouosed elimination of fee waivers for these petitions is an 
additional burdensome bbsta;~e  to receiving the protection of the United states. Vulnerable 
mlnors will be left with no options if they are unable to pay these dramatically higher fees. 

SUS applicants are foster children who rarely have work authorization prior to filing the 1-485 
petition; they are unable to legally work,  provide for themselves,  or earn the money necessary 
to apply to USCIS for immigration relief, These are minors with no financial resources. Also  by 
deflnltlon,  SIJS applicants can "age-out"  of eligibility for failure to adjust prior to their 2lSt 
birthday,  regardless of the merit!? of the underlying claim. An  increase in fees that makes it too 
difficult to obtain SUS may actually make It lmposslble for the lndlvidual to obtain any future 
Immigration status. 

.  - 

Lutheran Community Services Northwest recommends that in addition to automatically 
exempting VAWA self-petitioners (abused spouses,  parents or chlldren of a U.S.  citizen or LPR) 
from paying the $375 1-360 fee,  USCIS  should also automatically waive the 1-360 fee for 
speclal immigrant juveniles.  Lutheran Community Services Northwest encourages USCIS to set 

0 4 / 0 2 / 2 0 0 7   1 7 : 2 1   FAX 2 0 6   6 9 4   5 7 7 7  

LUTHERAN COMMUNITY SERV. 

all adjustment of status fees at a more reasonable level. I n  particular, Lutheran Cornmunity 
Services Northwest would like USCIS to malntain a fee walver policy that considers the 
hardships suffered by one of our most vulnerable immigrant populations: abandoned,  abused 
or neglected children. 

I n  conclusion,  Lutheran Community Services Northwest urges USCIS to reconsider the 
proposed fee Increase's impact on refugees and asylees.  We ask that USCIS work with 
members of Congress to help resolve the disparity in adjudication casts versus revenues 
collected. USCIS must create an alternative and permanent funding stream that will support its 
operations.  Seeking appropriations from Congress that supplement what USCIS collect$ in fees 
Is the only realistic way for USCIS to operate effectively without imposlng undue hardship upon 
indivlduals seeking tw access immigration benefits. It also helps to assure that vulnerable 
Individuals are not marginalized but are Integrated into U.S.  communities, achieving a good 
outcome for the Individuals and a common good for the g w h r  community. Lutheran 
Community Services Northwest supports the efforts of USUS in modernizing its infrastructure, 
reduclng backlogs and adjudication times,  and ensuring that all security background checks are 
completed accurately and efficiently.  Nevertheless, we do not believe the expenses should not 
be passed off onto USUS customers alone.  Lutheran Cornmunity Services Northwest hopes 
that USQS wlll work with immigrant communities and with Congress to develop a functioning, 
effective immigration system that will benefit our country. 

Thank you for hearing our concerns. 

Lutheran Communlty Services