From: mail.relay@mailmanager.net [mailto:mail.relay@mailmanager.net] On Behalf Of 
Deborah Kuiken 
Sent: Friday, March 02, 2007 6:05 PM 
To: USCIS Comments 
Subject: DHS Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044 - USCIS Fee Increase Comment 

Deborah Kuiken 
915 N. Tyndall Ave. 
Tucson, AZ 85721-0001 

March 2, 2007 

USCIS Comments 

Dear USCIS Comments: 

I am writing to you as an international student advisor in opposition to 
the February 1, 2007, proposed rule "Adjustment of the Immigration and 
Naturalization Benefit Application and Petition Fee Schedule."  The 
proposed fee increases are so exorbitant they will act as a disincentive 
for international students and scholars to study and work in the United 
States.  USCIS must reconsider the role of appropriated funds to meet the 
administrative needs of the agency.  I ask that fees be reduced to the 
actual cost of processing the application or petition.  

Many international students believe that the U.S. immigration system is 
set-up to discourage them from putting into practice the theory they 
learned in the classroom.  Yet, the students navigate the multiple levels 
of bureaucracy and receive their employment authorization documents (EAD 
cards). At the University of Arizona alone, 451 international students 
received Optional Practical Training (OPT) during 2006.  Multi-national 
companies based in the United States hired many of these students.  With 
the near-doubling of the I-765 fee for international students to apply for 
OPT, companies will experience a severe economic impact resulting from a 
diminished pool of talented, multilingual international student workforce. 
The companies will lose employees that would have played key roles in 
development of international commerce and expansion of potential markets.  

International student enrollment at the University of Arizona declined by 
13% from 2000 to 2006.  The State of Arizona Open Doors data reported a 
3.9% decrease of international students in 2006.  The USCIS fee increase 
has the potential to worsen an already dramatic international student 
enrollment loss for the State of Arizona.  June 2006 data from the United 
States Citizenship and Immigration Service recorded 156 DHS certified 
schools in the state of Arizona for the Student and Exchange Visitor 
Information Program.  These schools are part of the Arizona constituency 
negatively impacted by the proposed change. 

Instead of encouraging international students to study in the United 
States, the proposed USCIS fee increase sends the opposite message by 
discouraging international students from coming to the United States.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Time and energy should be spent on developing a U.S. national strategy to 
recruit international students, instead of proposing USCIS fee increase.  
The foreign national population does not have a voice in decision-making 
and has been taken advantage of by this proposed increase.  

Regrettably, the increased fees will reinforce the inefficiencies and 
dysfunctionalities USCIS inherited from INS when the Department of 
Homeland Security was created.  The solution to correcting the systemic 
problems that plague the agency is not to keep raising fees in a futile 
attempt to finance a twenty-first century agency.  Unfortunately, to meet 
its statutory requirements, USCIS is turning to its only steady source of 
funding, its filers and petitioners, to finance the required modernization 
of its systems.  While that is understandable, it is not acceptable as a 
matter of public policy, because it prices statutory benefits out of the 
reach of those who need them.  

The fact that USCIS operates on a fee-funded basis creates a built-in 
incentive to subsidize unnecessary work.  This creates an incentive to 
requiring USCIS approval for things; that way, you can charge a fee for 
processing the request, which provides necessary income to finance your 
broader operations.  The I-765 fee for Optional Practical Training is a 
classic example.  It used to be possible for school officials designated 
by the INS to approve OPT in accordance with agency regulations.  The 
benefits of reinstituting and expanding this process speak for themselves: 
 no application, no processing, no fee, one less task to be performed by 
the agency, more time to devote to what the agency really needs to do.  
There is no obvious public policy reason for USCIS to require agency 
approval for OPT today.  With the Student and Exchange Visitor Information 
System (SEVIS) now fully in place, it would be easy to devolve this 
responsibility back onto the schools.  Yet the cost of processing this 
unnecessary application process continues to drive up the fee.  

While I understand that USCIS is permitted by law to recover the full cost 
of its services through fees, and indeed has no other option so long as 
Congress is unwilling to appropriate funds for the operation of the 
agency, I ask that the fees be reduced to the actual cost of processing 
the application or petition.  Meanwhile, I ask Congress to step up to its 
responsibility for fixing the untenable situation that drives these fee 
increases. 

Thank you for the opportunity to comment. 

Sincerely, 

Deborah Kuiken 
520-621-4627 

This message has been verified by CapwizXC as authentic and sent by this 
individual.  Authentication ID: [36bekcg2] 

Changed message text: 40.7%