American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee 
         1732 Wisconsin Ave., NW | Washington, DC 20007 | www.adc.org 
           Tel: 202-244-2990 | Fax: 202-244-7968 | Email: adc@adc.org 

Board of Directors 

 March 26, 2007 

Safa Rifka, MD, Chair 
George Gorayeb, Treasurer 
Ashley Mammo, Esq., Secretary 
Asli U. Bali, Esq. 
Cheryl J. Faris, Esq. 
Thomas Tony George 
Assad Jebara 
Albert Mokhiber, Esq. 
Merrie Najimy 
Dick Shadyac, Esq. 
Jamilah Shami 
Naseem Tuffaha 

Hon. Mary Rose Oakar, President 
Hon. James Abourezk, Esq., 
Founder 

Advisory Committee 
Assad Jebara, Chairman 

Honorary Co-Chairs 
HE Clovis Maksoud , PhD 
Musa Y. Nasir, MD 
Her Majesty Queen Noor 
The Most. Rev. Metropolitan PHILIP 
Ahmad Sbaiti, PhD 

Regional Co-Chairs 
Hani Findakly, PhD 
Y.M. Basha, MD 
Sam Hawatmeh, MD 
Mohannad Malas 

Advisory Committee Members 
Fakhri Al-Barzinji 
Mokhless Al-Hariri,PhD 
Khalid Ataya, MD 
Tawfiq Barqawi 
Rafic Bizri 
Don Bustany 
Marilyn Harris Dabaghi 
Leila Deeb 
Hassan Essayli 
Haifa Fakhouri, PhD 
Joseph Haiek 
Badr Jebara 
Elizabeth Jebara 
Casey Kasem 
Samer Khanachet, PhD 
Layla Khouri 
Radwan Khoury, PhD 
Wael Khoury, MD 
Adel B. Korkor, MD 
Adnan E. Mourany, MD 
Farah Munayyer 
Wafa Nasr 
Denyse Sabagh, Esq. 
Anthony Saidy, MD 
Harold Samhat 
Anthony Shaker 
Jack Shaheen, PhD 
Yasir A. Shallal 
Norman Tanber 
Omar Turbi 

In Memoriam 
Hala Salaam Maksoud, PhD  
(1943-2002) 
Alex Odeh  
(1944-1985) 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
US Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Ave. NW, 3rd floor 
Washington DC 20529. 

RE:  DHS Docket # USCIS-2006-0044 
Proposed rule— Adjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit 
Application and Petition Fee Schedule 

On behalf of the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee (ADC), I write 
you to strongly oppose the increase in immigration and naturalization fees that US 
Citizenship and Immigration Service (USCIS) proposed on February 1, 2007.   

The American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee (ADC) is a civil rights 
organization committed to defending the rights of people of Arab descent and 
promoting their rich cultural heritage. ADC, which is non-sectarian and non-
partisan, is the largest Arab-American grassroots civil rights organization. It was 
founded in 1980 by former United States Senator James Abourezk, and has 38 
chapters nationwide and members in all 50 States.   

As part of its work, ADC represents a large number of Arab-American 
immigrants.  In particular, ADC’s work involves informing the community about 
immigration polices and laws; assisting immigrants with petitions for 
naturalization and adjustment, parole, and asylum; advocating for immigration 
reform legislation that strengthens the rights of families, children, and refugees; 
and working with government agencies to address naturalization and other 
immigration-related concerns. 

Arab immigration to the United States began in the 19th century and continues 
until present.  Today, most Arab Americans are US citizens and almost half are 
natural born citizens.  Many of these US-born and naturalized Arab Americans 
file immigration petitions for their family members so that they can start their 
path towards citizenship.  Individuals who file for naturalization already struggle 
to pay these filing fees. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee 
         1732 Wisconsin Ave., NW | Washington, DC 20007 | www.adc.org 
           Tel: 202-244-2990 | Fax: 202-244-7968 | Email: adc@adc.org 

The proposed fee increase by USCIS, which in some cases would double the current fees, would  
add a heavy burden on immigrant applicants and would impact the opportunity these applicants have to achieve 
permanent resident status, reunite with family members, and ultimately become US citizens. 

The proposed fee increase for naturalization is particularly troubling.  As recently as 1998, the cost to apply for 
citizenship was $95.  In 2002, after the Bush Administration took office, the costs (including biometric fees) 
went up from $250 to $310.  The total fees are now $400, a fourfold increase in the past eight years.  Now, 
USCIS is proposing a further increase of 70%, to $675.  An immigrant working at a minimum-wage job would 
need to work for more than three weeks and save all of his earnings in order to pay this fee. Such a vast fee 
increase will have a negative impact on the Arab-American immigrant community and will delay many from 
filing for naturalization because of the lack of funds. 

Even more troublesome is the proposed cost of filing for adjustment of status, which for many immigrants is the 
first step on the road to US citizenship.  That application fee has risen from $130 in 1998 to $325 today, plus 
$75 for biometrics.   Under the proposed rule, the price will rise to $905 plus $80 for biometrics.  In other 
words, it will cost nearly $1,000 for an immigrant to apply for a green card and start the five-year countdown to 
citizenship. 

In addition to paying the standard petition fees, thousands of Arab immigrants have been forced to engage in 
costly litigation as a result of severe delays in their naturalization processing.  Because of the unexplained 
delays in petition processing beyond the mandatory 120-day post-interview time period, individuals are forced 
to engage in litigation to compel USCIS to process their naturalization petitions.  This process adds to thousands 
of dollars to the standard naturalization fees that these individuals pay. 

USCIS claims that the fee increase is necessary to improve service.  USCIS clearly must take significant steps 
to improve service, as shown by the continuing backlogs in application processing and the months-long (even 
years-long) delays caused by security checks.  Last October, the Government Accountability Office reported 
that the agency had lost track of 110,000 files needed to process citizenship cases with DHS CRCL office.  

ADC is now working on over 200 naturalization delay cases and has filed sixty-six cases administratively with 
the DHS Office for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties.  Although immigrants and their families have properly 
paid, their naturalization application fees continue to face backlogs and delays in the processing of their 
applications, as well as reduced customer service.   

We acknowledge USCIS’ efforts to improve service, but we believe that the burden of paying for such 
improvements should not rest solely with immigrants who are already struggling to pay agency costs, and yet 
are receiving poor service.   

USCIS also argues that it has no other option than raising fees if it wishes to cover its costs.  In fact, there are no 
laws that require USCIS to fund all of its operations through fees.  Nothing prevents USCIS from pursuing 
other sources of revenue, including asking Congress for appropriations.  Indeed, USCIS has sought and received 
Congressional funding several times in the past, and could certainly do the same now. We encourage USCIS to 
seek such funding from Congress so as not to place the burden of correcting government inefficiencies on 
immigrants. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee 
         1732 Wisconsin Ave., NW | Washington, DC 20007 | www.adc.org 
           Tel: 202-244-2990 | Fax: 202-244-7968 | Email: adc@adc.org 

More importantly, immigration and citizenship are public services that benefit our entire country and for which 
we as nation, should help pay.  Immigrants bring their talent and hard work to our economy and actively 
contribute to the betterment of our nation.  They pay taxes and help revitalize our communities.  In becoming 
citizens, immigrants demonstrate their strong commitment to the United States by learning English, gaining 
knowledge about American history and government, and swearing allegiance to the United States.  Newly 
naturalized Arab-American citizens actively participate in our democracy, and register to vote at increasing 
rates.  Therefore, we must continue to encourage immigrants to become part of our community by gaining legal 
status and becoming citizens.  

For all these reasons, ADC believes that the proposal to increase immigration fees is misguided and 
counterproductive.  We strongly urge USCIS to reconsider this proposal, and to seek other sources of funding 
for its operations.   

Thank you for your consideration. 

Sincerely, 

Carol Khawly, MA, JD 
Director of Legal Advocacy